Editor’s Note: Find Thursday’s
Maui wildfires story here and live coverage here. At least six people have died in the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris.
Richard Bissen Jr., the island’s mayor, announced the death toll in a Wednesday news conference, but did not offer further details about the deaths and said authorities are still conducting search and rescue operations. So far, more than a dozen people had to be rescued from the ocean, among them two young children, Maui County officials said. Several people are also unaccounted for, Bissen added.
And many community members have been gripped with anxiety for their loved ones’ safety after flames began swallowing neighborhoods. “I have not slept in over 24 hours. I spent all night, all through the morning scrolling through my phone looking for family members,” Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire, told CNN’s Erin Burnett Wednesday. In the early Wednesday morning hours, Kaleiopu and his grandfather awoke to howling winds and quickly saw the blaze approaching their home. They fled shortly after 4 a.m. When Kaleiopu’s father went to the home an hour later to check that they had safely evacuated, there was nothing left.
“Our entire street was burned to the ground,” Kaleiopu said. The fires on Maui started spreading widely Tuesday – fueled in part by violent winds from Hurricane Dora, churning more than 800 miles away – decimating homes and businesses, launching urgent rescue missions, knocking out power and communication services, and even forcing some people into the ocean to avoid being burned. On Wednesday afternoon, officials on the island urged visitors to leave Lahaina and Maui “as soon as possible,” reporting a mass bus evacuation was ongoing and there were available flight seats. “As a result of three fires that have occurred that are continuing here on our island we have had 13 evacuations from different neighborhoods and towns, we’ve had 16 road closures, we’ve opened five shelters,” Bissen said, noting more than 2,000 people were staying at shelters.
Scores of structures on Maui have been burned to the ground, the mayor said. Most of them were in the historic town of Lahaina, a touristic and economic hub on the west side of the island. It’s where Claire Kent’s home was too. Kent was at a friend’s home and never got to pick up anything from her house before they evacuated. “We didn’t even realize we weren’t going to get to go back,” she said.
But within an hour, the inferno had consumed the neighborhood, and had swallowed cars on the road Kent and her friends were using to evacuate. Bissen said helicopters were using water drops over Maui Wednesday to help suppress the flames. The fires are still not contained. Meanwhile, crews on Hawaii’s Big Island were also working Wednesday to contain multiple brushfires there, including a blaze that was threatening structures in one community and was 60% contained, according to fire officials.
Hawaii’s governor, who was on a personal trip this week, said he was rushing back to the state Wednesday. Search and rescue efforts in Maui Wednesday were made even more complicated after the wildfires cut off power and disrupted 911 and other communication services in parts of the island, Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told CNN.
Satellite phones have been the only reliable way to get in touch with some areas, including hotels, the lieutenant governor said. The island is home to about 117,000 people. Thousands of animals were also displaced by the fires, the Maui Humane Society said in a Facebook post, pleading with residents who can to foster pets to make space for more animals, including some who may be injured. The disaster also has wiped out power to more than 12,000 homes and businesses in Maui, according to PowerOutage.us.
Video footage shot by Air Maui Helicopter Tours over parts of the Lahaina area shows entire blocks were decimated by the flames, with little but ruins and ashes left, and everything still engulfed in a thick, hazy smoke. “In my 52 years of flying on Maui, I’ve never seen anything like that in my life,” Olsten added.
Tourists are being discouraged from going to Maui, Luke told reporters Wednesday. Dora, a powerful Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds of 130 mph, was about 860 miles southwest of Honolulu Wednesday, the National Hurricane Center said. No coastal watches or warnings were in effect.
The state likely experienced its most intense winds Tuesday, seeing wind gusts reaching up to 80 mph, said meteorologist Ian Morrison with the National Weather Service office in Honolulu. But those effects are quickly dwindling. Wind speeds lowered Wednesday and are expected to further decrease Thursday and Friday, according to Morrison. “Dropping winds doesn’t mean the fires will go away,” Morrison warned, but added the drop will likely help firefighters working to contain the blazes.

KAHULUI, Hawaii (AP) — A wildfire tore through the heart of the Hawaiian island of Maui in darkness Wednesday, reducing much of a historic town to ash and forcing people to jump into the ocean to flee the flames. At least six people died, dozens were wounded and 271 structures were damaged or destroyed.
The fires continued to burn Wednesday afternoon, fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as it passed well south of the Hawaiian islands. Officials feared the death toll could rise.
As winds diminished somewhat, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of the coastal town of Lahaina by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County. Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses in Lahaina flattened, including on Front Street, a favorite spot for tourists to shop and dine.
Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said the flames “wiped out communities,” and urged travelers to stay away. “This is not a safe place to be,” she said.
Maui officials urged visitors to leave Lahaina, and the island was organizing a “mass bus evacuation” Wednesday afternoon to take people directly to the airport, according to an update from the county. West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, the county said.
The exact cause of the blaze couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors, including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation, likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for Hawaii State Department of Defense. Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather.
The wind-driven conflagration swept into the area with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in the Lahaina town center, which dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places. “It was apocalyptic from what they explained,” Tiare Lawrence said of 14 cousins and uncles who fled the town and took refuge at her home in Pukalani, east of Lahaina.
Crews were battling three fires in Maui: in Lahaina, south Maui’s Kihei area and the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry, said Mahina Martin, spokesperson for Maui County. In the Upcountry community of Kula, at least two homes were destroyed Tuesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles (4.5 square kilometers), County of Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii’s Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday.
Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires. The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles (805 kilometers), was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph (97 kph) that knocked out power, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters on Maui.
The Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had fled into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions, the county said in a statement. Fires killed six people on Maui, but search and rescue operations continued and the number could rise, Bissen said.
Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, he said.
The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, he said.
Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke. Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist.
President Joe Biden said in a statement Wednesday evening that he has ordered “all available Federal assets” to help Hawaii. The president said the Coast Guard and Navy are supporting response and rescue efforts, while the Marines are providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the fires. There was no count available for the number of people who have evacuated, but officials said there were four shelters open housing 2,100 people.
Kahului Airport, the main airport in Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on the island, the county said. Officials were preparing the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in up to 4,000 displaced tourists and locals.
Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it’s tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many. “Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” he said.
Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina, said he and his wife didn’t have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “We had years and years of research material, artifacts,” he said.
Alan Dickar said he’s not sure what remains of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists. “Every significant thing I owned burned down today,” he said.
This story was edited to correct that Bissen is the mayor of the County of Maui, not Lahaina. Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writer Beatrice Dupuy in New York contributed to this report.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) -
As strong winds fuel raging brush fires on Maui, the county has opened multiple emergency shelters as evacuations are in effect. Acting Governor Sylvia Luke has issued an emergency proclamation to extend the state of emergency to all counties.
She’s also discouraging non-essential air travel to Maui and wants to prioritize scarce resources for residents. State and county leaders will be holding a press conference Wednesday morning at 10 a.m. to provide an update on the wildfires and impacts of Hurricane Dora across the state.
Maui County officials sent out a clarification saying for emergencies, the public is urged to TEXT 911. Communications with West Maui are proving to be difficult and calling 911 is unavailable. They’re also asking the public to not call the Lahaina Station as initially announced.
Evacuations are still being conducted Wednesday morning as crews continue to battle fires in Upcountry Maui, South Maui and Kihei. At last check, at least 7,500 people were evacuated from Lahaina and shelters are approaching capacity but they’re still taking in people. Multiple sources say thousands of visitors are being evacuated from Maui to Oahu.
Maui High School Residents who were at Kihei Community Center are being relocated to Maui High as a precautionary measure. At last check, there were at least 1,200 people in the shelter.
Maui Preparatory in Napili-Honokowai People who were utilizing the Lahaina Civic Center have been evacuated and relocated to Maui Preparatory. A spokesperson for MPD says that the shelter is not being evacuated but people have the option to leave through Kahakuloa. Meanwhile, Kihei residents are now allowed to return back home.
Officials said pet owners utilizing shelters will need to have pets properly restrained. Approximately 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at the Kahului Airport with many west side highways closed. HDOT worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina and upcountry. DOT says anyone looking to leave Lahaina and make their way to Kahului Airport can use the back road out of the area.
It remains open at this hour. Kahului Airport remains open especially anyone hoping to leave Maui.
“If you are in an area impacted by brush fires, it is recommended to prepare and get ready to evacuate if needed. Make preparations for your family and pets,” the post said.
As multiple fire crews battle the blazes, police are not letting through any vehicles into West Maui due to unsafe conditions. All roads in Lahaina Town are closed and is open only for emergency personnel.
This includes all roads between Wahikuli wayside park on the north, to Kai Hele Ku Street to the south. The public is permitted to leave the west side of Maui via Kahakuloa — no one is allowed to enter (one-way traffic only).
Kahekili Highway in Waihee to Lahaina bound traffic. Hononoapiilani Highway remains closed at Maalaea and in Kapalua.
Haleakala Highway 377 between Kula Highway and L. Kimo Drive. Kealaloa Road from Hanamu Road to Haleakala Highway 377.
Lahainaluna Road from Lahaina Bypass to Kuialua Street. Authorities are asking drivers to stay off of the roads completely and to stay indoors unless you are asked to evacuate by first responders.
Ka’anapali Golf Estates area including Kaulapa Loop, Pu’u Anoano street, Hakui Loop, and Wekio Place. Evacuations were also issued in the vicinities of Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu and Lahaina Bypass.
Wahikuli residents in West Maui were also evacuated Tuesday evening. According to a Maui County spokesperson, crews are working to put out fires in Upcountry, Olinda, Kula, Kihei, Wailuku and West Maui.
Meanwhile, water buffalos filled with drinking water can be found at Kula Fire Station, Kula Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road – Hydrant 373. The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) regional administrator authorized the use of federal funds on Wednesday to assist the state in combatting the Lahaina fire.
This is a breaking news story, please check back for updates. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

Editors’ Note: Please bookmark this page. This breaking news story will be updated as soon as more information becomes available.
UPDATE: 10 p.m. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s office said tonight that the confirmed death toll from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday has risen to 36. Earlier today, they said six deaths had been confirmed. Officials fear the death toll and injuries will rise.
In addition to the 36 confirmed deaths, officials say at least 30 were wounded by the fires which forced some residents to jump into Lahaina Harbor to escape flames. The firestorm is also estimated to have destroyed or damaged at least 271 structures on the Valley Isle. Maui County officials provided no additional information on the deaths.
Also tonight, the Federal Emergency Management Agency approved the state’s request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the wind-whipped wildfires burning in Kula, Kihei and LahainaThe decision under the Fire Management Assistance Grant program opens the door to allow for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of the eligible firefighting costs, state officials said. Meanwhile, about 11,000 Hawaii visitors have been flown from Maui as local leaders try to focus efforts on assisting Maui residents. That was one of the updates at a news conference at the Hawaii Convention Center this evening held by Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono and other local leaders involved in the response to the Maui and Hawaii island fires.
State Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen said that airlines have helped accommodate Maui travelers to get them off the island. Another 600 people are expected to spend tonight at the Kahului airport, he said.
While the convention center has been set up to accommodate visitors who need help figuring out where to stay or how to get home, it’s been mostly empty as visitors have been able to find a place to stay on their own. “The hotels that had occupancy this morning, most of them don’t have that occupancy.
That tells us that people are going straight from the airport and finding their accommodations and transportation,” James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, said at the news conference. Sniffen noted that Hawaiian Airlines is operating until 2 a.m. Thursday and Southwest Airlines has dropped its fares to help in the effort.
In the meantime, Luke said the state is still in the “assessment stage,” so the extent of the damage is still not clear, but she said that recovery will take a long time. Luke said that the state is applying for several types of federal aid to support affected residents and businesses as well as for rebuilding destroyed infrastructure.
Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency didn’t have an updated figure for the number of fatalities from the fires, deferring to the counties to provide those and similar numbers, but said Mayor Bissen plans on updating figures Thursday morning. Regarding the cause of the fire, he mentioned that the high winds across the state, in part caused by Hurricane Dora passing to the south, took him by surprise. “That wind speed, how rapidly that fire moved, that was not anticipated,” he said.
Maui County officials said three emergency shelters remain open: Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School Gym and War Memorial Gym. Shelters at Maui Preparatory Academy and Kihei Community Center are closed, they said.
6 p.m. Kaiser Permanente reported its Lahaina clinic has been destroyed by the fire. Members are being directed to its Maui Lani location. 4:40 p.m.
“A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Ka’anapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport,” the county update said. “Five County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at the Sheraton at about 4 p.m. 4:30 p.m.
All Hawaii public schools on Maui, except Hana High & Elementary, will be closed to students and staff through Friday because of the wildfires and evacuations on the island. The Department of Education’s Maui District Office and Pu‘unene School offices are also closed.
DOE officials said they awaiting clearance to access Lahaina to conduct preliminary damage assessments of public school campuses. Unofficial aerial photos show the King Kamehameha III Elementary campus — on Front Street in Lahaina — sustained extensive fire and structural damage, they said.
The four Lahaina schools enrolled nearly 3,000 students based on last school year’s enrollment counts and employ about 300 faculty and staff, officials said. Schools Superintendent Keith Hayashi has assembled an internal response team to coordinate resources and planning.
4 p.m. A federal team is on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts, Maui County said in a news release. Flyovers of Lahaina conducted by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department reveal more than 271 structures were damaged or destroyed by the fire, culminating in widespread damage to the town, harbor and surrounding area, officials said. With nearly 100 Maui firefighters working around the clock to battle the wildfires in Lahaina, Upcountry and Pulehu, MFD officials said, they requested the assistance of 20 firefighters from Honolulu, and incident management team. Four helicopters were deployed for water drops in Lahaina, while two Chinook and four Windward Aviation helicopters conduct drops on the three active fires.
Meanwhile, three helicopters from the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy conducted search and rescue operations along the West Maui coastline. MFD reported no significant changes for the three blazes. 3:50 p.m.
Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke has issued a third emergency proclamation regarding the ongoing wildfire disaster in Maui and Hawaii island. The third proclamation extends the emergency period through Aug. 31, from Aug. 15, which was the end date in the second proclamation issued early today. The new proclamation also makes it easier for state and local authorities to assist in the response, recovery, and rebuilding efforts, the governor’s office said.
3 p.m. Maui Memorial Medical Center said since Tuesday night the hospital has been treating patients with burns, smoke inhalation, and other fire-related injuries. As of this afternoon, Maui Memorial said all patients had been cared for.
Five have been admitted, including two for critical injuries. Seven others were transferred to Oahu for specialty services, including some for fire-related injuries. Other patients were treated and released.
Maui Health officials said they are prepared to activate a surge plan if needed, and are collaborating closely with Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, Straub, and Queens to ensure timely treatment of care. Kula Hospital and Lanai Community Hospital remain fully operational and staffed.
Families looking for loved ones at Maui Memorial Medical Center should call the main hospital line at 808-244-9056 and provide a first and last name. To contact Kula Hospital, call 808-878-1221. The Hawaii Department of Health, meanwhile, warns that the increased levels of smoke, ash, and dust on Maui and Hawaii island, can be harmful to those who suffer from pre-existing respiratory conditions. >>
Avoid outdoor activities to reduce exposure and minimize health risks, particularly children, seniors and individuals with pre-existing respiratory conditions and chronic lung and heart disease. >>
Stay indoors and close all windows and doors. If an air conditioner is used, set it to the recirculate option.
>> If you need to leave the affected area, turn on your vehicle’s air conditioner and set it to the recirculate option.
>> Always keep medications on hand.
>> Daily prescribed medications for respiratory illnesses should be taken on schedule.
>> Contact a doctor as soon as possible if you experience any health problems.
>> Do not smoke and avoid second-hand smoke. >>
Drink plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration. >>
Have family emergency plans prepared and ready. >> Heed warnings by county and state emergency management officials.
2:40 p.m. Aloha United Way said its 211 information and referral line is working closely with Maui and Hawaii island organizations to provide updates and information, and to answer questions when possible. The service is available statewide and can also be accessed via email or chat.
John L. Fink, president & CEO of Aloha United Way, said the group’s home page, www.auw.org, lists a donation site for the Maui Fire Relief Fund and will send the money to Maui United Way, which will handle distribution over the coming months. 2:30 p.m. The Queen’s Health Systems confirmed it is caring for several patients as a result of the wildfires on Maui and Hawaii island. Queen’s gave no further information on the patients.
Kaiser Permanente officials, meanwhile, said its Lahaina and Kihei clinics are closed. 10:50 a.m.
Wildfires killed six people on Maui, Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said at a morning news conference. He said he had just learned the news and didn’t know the details of how or where on the island the deaths happened.
Six patients were flown from Maui to Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, he said.
The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, he said.
Straub’s Burn Unit is treating three burn patients from Maui who are in critical condition, Hawaii Pacific Health said. The victims’ identities and injuries were not disclosed.
9:55 a.m. Residents of Launiupoko Estates off of Punakea Loop are being advised to evacuate immediately. Shelters are open at the Maui Prep Academy in Napili.
Maui County officials, meanwhile, say firefighting efforts continue in Lahaina, Pulehu, and Upcountry, but there have been no changes in containments of this morning. Crews battled a fire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, with four helicopters launched this morning to assist in the firefighting efforts.
Officials said improving weather conditions allowed for the helicopters, including ones from the U.S. Coast Guard and Navy, to launch this morning after being hampered by gusts up to 80 mph on Tuesday. More than 2,100 people were housed overnight in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Preparatory Academy in Napili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Kihei residents evacuated last night were cleared to return to their homes shortly after 6 a.m. today, according to officials. Firefighters continue fighting a Pulehu fire mauka of Kihei.
Evacuees at the Maui Preparatory Academy shelter were notified to leave to go to Kaanapali hotels to gather their belongings and evacuate Lahaina through Kahakuloa. The Coast Guard now reports it rescued 14 people from the ocean off Lahaina on Tuesday, including two young children who were reunited with family.
Lahaina remains without telephone service, either by landline or cell phone. People trying to locate loved ones impacted by the fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767. 9:35 a.m.
Hawaii’s congressional delegation is urging President Joe Biden to act swiftly to make all federal resources available and approve any request for a presidential disaster declaration for Maui and Hawaii counties, which are reeling from destructive wildfires. “We request your help to expedite all federal assistance possible to help the state recover from devastating fires in Maui and Hawai‘i counties,” U.S. Sens. Brian Schatz and Mazie K. Hirono and U.S. Reps. Ed Case and Jill Tokuda wrote in a letter to Biden today. “Communities in both counties will need substantial support to recover from fires that are devastating some of the State’s most iconic cultural and economic centers,” the delegation wrote in their urgent letter to President Biden.
The delegation said the declaration will help ensure that the affected communities can access important federal funding and resources to recover. 8:30 a.m.
Maui County officials said Kahului Airport remains open. Police at this time are allowing traffic out of Lahaina through the bypass. Those seeking flights off the island can reach Kahului Airport using the bypass and Kahekili Highway. Many airlines are offering travel waivers and vouchers during the emergency period.
Maui County officials said 911 service in West Maui is not available. For emergencies, people should call the Lahaina Police Department directly at 808-661-4441. The Maui Department of Waters Supply, meanwhile is requesting that consumers islandwide conserve water in an effort to reduce demand and extend existing supplies until the situation can safely be assessed.
That includes refraining from washing cars, washing down sidewalks and driveways and watering lawns, among other measures. 7:55 a.m. 7:45 a.m. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation today to extend the state of emergency to all counties, discourage non-essential air travel to Maui, and order all affected state agencies to assist with the evacuation, the governor’s office said today.
As the wildfires continue, visitors with current and planned lodging at West Maui hotels may not have accommodations, state officials said. “This proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so we can prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance,” Luke said. The proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart the island as soon as safe and practicable.
Green said, “The wind-fueled fires have devastated many of our communities and people will be looking to our office for leadership while we address the ongoing emergency and do what we can as a state to rebuild lives,” Green said in the statement. “We have suffered a terrible disaster in the form of a wildfire that has spread widely as a result of hurricane-force winds in the region and underlying drought conditions. Maui and the Big Island both experienced significant fires. Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced,” he said.
He said he has named Adjutant General Ken Hara as the state incident commander, and the Hawaii National Guard has mobilized and is being supported by FEMA. Green had been scheduled to return to Hawaii from personal travel on Aug. 15, but will be back in the state tonight to address the crisis, his office said.
A massive wind-swept wildfire, one of many across two islands, swept through Lahaina town, forcing large-scale evacuations, burning homes and businesses, and leading to the rescue of a dozen people who fled into the ocean to escape the flames and heavy smoke that has destroyed much of historic Front Street. In addition to Lahaina, major fires in Kula and Kihei, led to evacuations in those Maui communities Tuesday. Roads and schools were closed today as firefighters and other first responders struggle to keep up with the unprecedented disaster.
The state Department of Transportation said about 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at the Kahului Airport, and many west-side highways were closed. “HDOT worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina and upcountry,’ DOT tweeted this morning.
Southwest Airlines said early today it had 1,000 seats available for people trying to leave the island. Hawaiian Airlines said it has a travel waiver in place and customers can receive a refund or change travel to a future date without a penalty.
Hawaii island was also dealing with major brushfires and shelters remained open today at Waimea Community Center and Hisaoka Gym on the island. Hawaii Fire Department said today crews continue to battle three fires in North and South Kohala.
In Lahaina, the U.S. Coast Guard responded to areas where people went into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions Tuesday. The Coast Guard tweeted that a crew rescued 12 people from the water off Lahaina. After 6 a.m. today, Maui County said evacuated Kihei residents were clear to return to their homes.
Alan Dickar said he’s not sure what remains of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists. Dickar, who assumed the three homes he owns burned down, said it will take a heroic effort to rebuild what has burned in Lahaina, which is home to about 13,000 people.
The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power as night fell, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters. Dangerous fire conditions created by strong winds and low humidity were expected to last through Wednesday afternoon, the weather service said.
Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard. One emergency proclamation was declared Tuesday and a second one was declared today, extending the emergency to all counties.
The state wants to discourage non-essential travel to Maui amid the fires, Luke told Hawaii News Now this morning. Tourists on the island are encouraged to go home as soon as feasible and visitors scheduled to arrive on Maui are encouraged not to come, she said.
State officials are meeting with major airlines, including Hawaiian, Southwest, United and Alaska, to build support for this plan, Luke said. Today’s emergency proclamation will support that effort, she said.
It was too windy for some firefighting aircraft to take off Tuesday, hampering firefighting efforts, Luke said. She had no estimate of the number of structures or acres lost to the fires.
Shelter spaces were constantly changing. About 2,000 people sheltered in place at Maui’s main airport, which officials are trying to clear so that the airport is better able to handle departing passengers. She could not estimate when the fires might be under control.
“We’ve never dealt with fires of this magnitude.” Initially, officials thought the fires on the Big Island might be worse, but the Lahaina fire erupted fiercely. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen also issued an emergency proclamation Tuesday in response to the ongoing Maui fires.
On Hawaii island, fire has threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, which has a population of more than 500. The fire was also threatening a volunteer fire department, local electrical transmission lines, and an AT&T cellular communications tower in the area, Hawaii Emergency Management Agency officials said.
The fire was not contained and had burned more than 600 acres when the state made the request was made, officials said. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, meanwhile, approved Hawaii’s request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the wildfire on Hawaii island, HI-EMA officials said.
The decision under the Fire Management Assistance Grant program allows for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of the eligible firefighting costs. “We’re grateful to our federal partners for their quick review and decision, which will help Hawaii County meet this challenge in Kohala,” said HI-EMA Administrator James Barros in a statement. Fire was widespread in Lahaina, including on Front Street, an area of the town of roughly 13,000 that is popular with tourists, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said by phone early today.
Traffic has been very heavy as people try to evacuate, and officials asked people who weren’t in an evacuation area to shelter in place to avoid adding to the traffic, she said. Photos posted by the county overnight showed a line of flames blazing across an intersection in Lahaina and flames leaping above buildings in the town, whose historic district is on the National Register of Historic Places.
Officials were not aware of any deaths and knew of one first-responder injury, a firefighter who was in stable condition at a hospital after experiencing smoke inhalation, Martin said. Honolulu Emergency Medical Services officials said nine patients were transported to Oahu, three with serious burn victims. There’s no count available for the number of structures affected by the fires or the number of people affected by evacuations, but Martin said at the four Maui shelters open had over 1,000 people at the largest.
“This is so unprecedented,” Martin said, noting that multiple districts were affected. An emergency in the night is terrifying, she said, and the darkness makes it hard to gauge the extent of the damage. “Right now it is all-hands-on-deck and we are anxious for daybreak,” she said.
Cell phone towers around Lahaina had reportedly burned and landlines were also down. In West Maui 911 service was not available and residents were directed to call the police department.
Because of the wind gusts, helicopters weren’t able to dump water on the fires from the sky — or gauge more precise fire sizes — and firefighters were encountering roads blocked by downed trees and power lines as they worked the inland fires, Martin said. About 14,500 customers in Maui were without power early today, according to poweroutage.us.
“It’s definitely one of the more challenging days for our island given that it’s multiple fires, multiple evacuations in the different district areas,” Martin said. Winds were recorded at 80 mph in inland Maui and one fire that was believed to be contained earlier Tuesday flared up hours later with the big winds, she added.
“The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, it can be at your house,” Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea said. In the Kula, Maui, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles, Bissen said.
About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, he said. “We’re trying to protect homes in the community,” Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said of evacuating about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the island. As of Tuesday, the roof of one house caught on fire, he said.
On Maui, all public schools, except Hana High & Elementary, were closed today. In addition to the public school closures, Kamehameha Schools Maui and Aapueo Preschool will also remain closed Wednesday.

UPDATE: 7:20 p.m.
The Hawaii Fire Department says all Big Island “arterial roadways” are open, all residential areas are open, and Hisaoka Gym and Waimea Community Center, which were being used as emergency shelters, have returned to normal operations. County officials noted that the National Weather Service’s red flag warning for leeward areas of the island remains in effect until 6 a.m. Thursday as critical fire weather conditions of strong winds, low relative humidity, and warm temperatures continue to make for extreme fire danger. “Please postpone and avoid all outdoor activities using open flames and parking of vehicles on dry vegetation after driving,” county officials said. 5:45 p.m.
Hawaii County officials said the remaining evacuation orders for the southern portion of Kohala Ranch have been lifted. Access is now available via the Kohala Mountain Road and Highway 270.
Additionally, evacuation orders for the Villas and South Fairways at Mauna Kea have also been lifted, and access to and from the resort area is also now allowed. Guests at the resort are no longer required to shelter in place.
Brushfires that flared up Kau near Naalehu and Pahala have been “neutralized,” officials said. There are no closures of any major highways on Hawaii island as a result of the South Kohala brushfires. Shelters will remain open through 8 p.m at Hisaoka Park in Kapa’au and Waimea Community Center in Kamuela.
3 p.m. The Hawaii Fire Department said additional brush fires have broken out in Kau near Naalehu and Pahala but that they are under control. No structures are threatened, and no road closures are in place in the area.
Fire crews, meanwhile, continue to battle the three ongoing fires in North and South Kohala. Mauna Kea Beach Drive on Mauna Kea Resort remains closed due to active firefighting. Akoni Pule Highway has reopened and the mandatory evacuations of Kohala Ranch between Akoni Pule Highway and Kamakani Loop have lifted.
There is still an evacuation order active for the Mauna Kea Resort Villas residential area. The red flag warning indicating the presence of critical fire weather conditions remains in place for the leeward areas of all isles. The National Weather Service has extended the red flag warning to 6 a.m. Thursday.
Officials ask residents to postpone all outdoor activities using open flames, and to avoid parking vehicles on dry vegetation after driving. 12 p.m. Hawaii County firefighters continue to battle three fires in North and South Kohala, according to a noon Civil Defense update.
>> Akoni Pule Highway between mile markers 6 to 17. >> Mauna Kea Beach Drive due to active firefighting and evacuations. Queen Kaahumanu Highway, however, is now open between mile marker 69 and Kawaihae Junction, according to county officials.
Mandatory evacuations for Kohala Ranch between Akoni Pule Highway and Kamakani Loop and the Mauna Kea Resort Villas residential area still remain in effect at this time. Hawaii County Mayor Mitch Roth said at a press conference this morning that helicopters were doing water drops, but that the situation was still challenging due to a red flag warning that remains in place through 6 p.m. tonight.
The fire broke out early Tuesday, burned hundreds of acres and threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, a rural community with a population of more than 500. The Federal Emergency Management Agency on Tuesday approved the state’s request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the Kohala Ranch wildfire on Hawaii island.
The approval opens the door for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of eligible firefighting costs. Hawaii island residents impacted by brush fires or high winds should report damages to Civil Defense at 808-935-0031.

Update: The death toll for the Maui fires has increased. View our latest coverage here.
At least six people were killed on the Hawaiian island of Maui as wind-fueled wildfires tore through the area, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. announced. Hundreds of buildings have also been damaged or destroyed.
"We are still in a search and rescue mode, and so I don't know what will happen to that number," Bissen said. The mayor didn't provide details about the circumstances surrounding the deaths, saying the death toll was confirmed just before a news conference with officials. He said several other people were unaccounted for but may be people who are in vehicles who haven't gone into a shelter.
Over 2,100 people were using the five shelters that have been opened on the island, and some of them — along with a number of hotels — lost power, Bissen said. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke told reporters that some shelters were "overrun" and tourists, who were still arriving on Maui Wednesday morning, were discouraged from going to the island.
There was one bit of encouraging news: The National Weather Service canceled its Red Flag wildfire warning and high wind advisory for all of Hawaii Wednesday night. The blazes drove people to jump into a harbor to escape flames and smoke and forced people to evacuate earlier on Wednesday, authorities said. The Coast Guard said it rescued 14 people in the town of Lahaina who turned to its harbor for refuge, and all were in stable condition.
Officials said Wednesday that hospitals on the island were treating burn and smoke inhalation patients. Fire was widespread in Lahaina, a tourist town with a population of 12,000 on the northwestern tip of Maui. Maui county officials reported Wednesday afternoon that at least 271 structures have been damaged or destroyed in the wildfires in Lahaina.
"Widespread damage to the West Maui town, the harbor and surrounding areas are being documented," the county said in a statement. Maui County tweeted that multiple roads were closed with a warning: "Do NOT go to Lahaina town."
Traffic has been very heavy as people try to evacuate and officials asked people who weren't in an evacuation area to shelter in place to avoid adding to the traffic, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin told the Associated Press in a phone interview early Wednesday. Officials issued an island-wide request Wednesday morning for people to conserve water to reduce demand and extend existing supplies as firefighters battled the blazes. Photos posted by the county overnight showed a line of flames blazing across an intersection and leaping above buildings in the town center that dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places.
Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center's burn unit, he said.
The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, he said.
He had not heard of any deaths. Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke. "The reality is that we need to fly people out of Maui to give them burn support," Luke said.
"911 is down. Cell service is down. Phone service is down.
And that's been part of the problem," she said. Luke, the state's lieutenant governor, issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Green and activated the Hawaii National Guard. Luke issued another proclamation Wednesday afternoon strongly discouraging all nonessential travel to Maui. The proclamation also gives Hawaii's emergency management agency the authority to order mandatory evacuations of civilian populations. Kahului Airport, the main airport in Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on the island, the county said.
Front Street, a shopping and dining area of Lahaina popular with tourists, was badly hit by the flames. The wildfire in Lahaina was one of many in Hawaii fanned by strong winds that burned multiple structures, forced evacuations and caused power outages in several communities as firefighters struggled to reach some areas that were cut off by downed trees and power lines. Some people reported having trouble evacuating due to gridlock, smoke and encroaching flames.
The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power as night fell, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters. Dangerous fire conditions created by strong winds and low humidity were expected to last through Wednesday afternoon, the weather service said. The Central Pacific Hurricane Center said Dora was a Category 4 hurricane as of late Wednesday morning.
"This is so unprecedented," Martin said, noting that multiple districts were affected. An emergency in the night is terrifying, she said, and the darkness makes it hard to gauge the extent of the damage.
Noting the rise in donations and fundraising to help victims of the wildfires, Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez warned against "bad actors who try to take advantage of people's goodwill." Lopez urged people to donate to trusted, well-known charities and verify that recipients of donations are legitimate. Pickett said the increasing frequency of droughts, hurricanes, invasive species of plant life and human behavior have all contributed to this rising threat.
The fires weren't only raging on Maui. The Federal Emergency Management Agency approved a disaster declaration to provide assistance with a fire that threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, a rural community with a population of more than 500 on the Big Island, according to the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. When the request was made, the fire had burned more than 600 acres and was uncontained.
Two other uncontrolled fires were burning on the Big Island and Maui, officials said. Fire crews on Maui were battling multiple blazes concentrated in two areas: the popular tourist destination of West Maui and an inland, mountainous region. In West Maui 911 service was not available and residents were directed to call the police department.
Because of the wind gusts, helicopters weren't able to dump water on the fires from the sky — or gauge more precise fire sizes — and firefighters were encountering roads blocked by downed trees and power lines as they worked the inland fires, Martin said. More than 12,500 customers in Hawaii were without power Wednesday afternoon, according to PowerOutage.us.
"It's definitely one of the more challenging days for our island given that it's multiple fires, multiple evacuations in the different district areas," Martin said. Winds were recorded at 80 mph in inland Maui and one fire that was believed to be contained earlier Tuesday flared up hours later with the big winds, she added. "The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, it can be at your house," Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea said.
Hurricane Dora was complicating matters for firefighters in an already dry season. Hawaii is sandwiched between high pressure to the north and a low pressure system associated with Dora, explained Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu.
The dryness and the gusts "make a dangerous fire situation so that fires that do exist can spread out of control very rapidly," he said. "It's kind of because of Hurricane Dora, but it's not a direct result," he said, calling the fires a "peripheral result" of the hurricane's winds. In the Kula area of Maui, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1,100 acres, Bissen said.
About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, he said. Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec was among those forced to evacuate and told KGMB-TV she could see flames advancing as she headed to an emergency shelter. "There were branches falling down on us, small ones but enough that I sped up," she said. All of Maui's public schools except for one were closed Wednesday, the state Education Department announced.
The Red Cross was opening shelters on Maui and the Big Island. "We're trying to protect homes in the community," Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said of evacuating about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the island. As of Tuesday, the roof of one house caught on fire, he said.
Fires in Hawaii are unlike many of those burning in the U.S. West. They tend to break out in large grasslands on the dry sides of the islands and are generally much smaller than fires in the U.S. mainland.
Fires were rare in Hawaii and on other tropical islands before humans arrived, and native ecosystems evolved without them. This means great environmental damage can occur when fires erupt. For example, fires remove vegetation. When a fire is followed by heavy rainfall, the rain can carry loose soil into the ocean, where it can smother coral reefs.
A major fire on the Big Island in 2021 burned homes and forced thousands to evacuate. The island of Oahu, where Honolulu is located, also was dealing with power outages, downed power lines and traffic problems, said Adam Weintraub, communication director for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.
-Agence France-Presse contributed reporting.

The Hawaii Army National Guard and 25th Infantry Division at Schofield Barracks have deployed personnel and helicopters to assist with devastating fires on Maui and the Big Island.
On Maui, 16 Guardsmen were activated Tuesday night and started assisting the Maui Police Department with traffic control. Another 20 will start today along with helicopter fire suppression from two CH-47 Chinook helicopters.
Another 12 Guardsmen will be assisting First Responders with Search and Rescue starting today. For Hawaii island, 30 Guardsmen started this morning to assist with traffic.
The 25th Infantry Division is supplying fire supression support. Multiple helicopters, two UH-60 Blackhawks and one CH-47 Chinook, are assisting with fire suppression as weather permits.

President Joe Biden said today he has ordered “all available federal assets on the islands to help with response” to the devastating wildfires on Maui and the Big Island.
He urged all Hawaii residents to continue to follow evacuation orders, listen to the instructions of first responders and officials, and to stay alert. Hawaii’s congressional delegation sent the president a letter today urging him to act swiftly to make all federal resources available and approve any request for a presidential disaster declaration for Maui and Hawaii counties.

LAHAINA — Tama Kaleleiki watched in dismay as a blaze fanned by strong winds engulfed the hall of Lahaina’s historic Waiola Church.
The hall and neighboring Lahaina Hongwanji Mission temple were among multiple structures that caught fire in West Maui as a fast-moving blaze forced widespread evacuations, shut down roads and schools and prompted officials to advise the public to avoid Lahaina town — all while more than 1,000 acres burned in a separate fire Upcountry and crews watered down buildings in South Maui as a precaution. The Lahaina brush fire, which state and county officials said was fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora, initially broke out around 6:37 a.m. Tuesday and burned 3 acres near Lahainaluna Road, prompting an evacuation at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. The fire had been declared 100 percent contained shortly before 9 a.m.
But a flareup later in the day forced the closure of the Lahaina Bypass and more evacuations as crews fought to contain it. Stuck in a long line of Olowalu-bound cars barely moving on Front Street, a couple and their baby goat fled the thick cloud of black smoke roiling in the heart of Lahaina behind them.
“Our house just burned. I was fighting the fire,” said the man, who declined to give his name, as his wife wiped away tears.
Leeward sides of all islands have been under a red flag warning over the past few days, as strong winds and low humidity elevated the risk of fire. The heavy winds and fierce gusts that Maui County said clocked in at 80 mph Upcountry created mayhem Tuesday.
At 12:22 a.m., a fire was reported near Olinda Road, leading to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. The fire had spread to about 1,000 acres and reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge by the afternoon, triggering proactive evacuation warnings for Piiholo and Olinda road area residents and immediate evacuation orders for Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle.
“I looked out my window and it was pitch black, but you could see the red glow and you could hear the fire,” said Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision. In the subdivision mid-morning Tuesday, residents could be seen driving along the roadways while an engine from Kahului drove through the area. The neighborhood was filled with smoke and winds were still whipping trees and plants.
Williams acknowledged that the situation freaked her out. “You didn’t know what to take or anything. They said evacuate
and I had my pajamas on,” Williams said as she sat with two neighbors at the emergency shelter opened by the American Red Cross at the Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani Tuesday morning. She didn’t take very much, only items like family photos.
“I grabbed some stuff, I put some clothes on, got some dog food. I have a giant tortoise.
I couldn’t move him so I opened his gate so he could get out if he needed to,” said Williams as she comforted her 3-year-old Corgi, Alice, who was unsettled by the fire. Gombac said they live in an area where neighbors take care of each other, and even if they didn’t know each other’s names, they asked if they were O.K. The American Red Cross continued to staff the shelter in Pukalani Tuesday evening. Residents needed to bring their personal items with them, including food and bedding.
The Maui Humane Society was also providing support for pets, which needed to be properly restrained. Kaonoulu Ranch also opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. “At 2-3 in the morning, you could see the embers flying,” said Haleakala Ranch Vice President and Livestock Operations Manager Greg Friel, who was leading ranch horses into the arena with his grandson Eli Friel on Tuesday morning. At least two structures Upcountry were destroyed by the fire, though fire officials were not yet releasing the location or other details on Tuesday afternoon.
In addition to the structures, pastureland and gulches were burned. Maui County said multiple structures in Lahaina burned, though the total count and size of the fire was not immediately known as of Tuesday night.
“We expect it to be extensive but our focus right now is on public safety and the safety of our responders. So those assessments will come likely later,” Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said Tuesday night.
In addition to strong winds, a lack of communications with the west side due to cell towers and landlines being down also created more challenges, Martin said. In both Upcountry and West Maui, the wind brought down power lines and poles, which blocked traffic and affected electrical service. Hawaiian Electric said at 3:30 p.m. that about 12,400 customers were without power in West Maui, where crews were making repairs to about 30 downed poles and multiple spans of power lines in various areas, including in Puamana along Honoapiilani Highway. Another 600 customers were offline Upcountry, including parts of Olinda, Piiholo, Makawao and Kula, as crews repaired more than 30 spans of downed power lines.
Hawaiian Electric reminded customers that downed power lines may be energized. People should stay at least 30 feet or more away. Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or to Hawaiian Electric’s trouble line at (808) 871-7777.
Maui County asked residents of both Upcountry and West Maui to conserve water because power outgoes were affecting the ability to pump water to certain locations. Drinking water stations are located at Kula Fire Station, Kula Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road at Hydrant 373. The lack of electricity and threat of the fire closed businesses and schools in both Upcountry and West Maui.
Kamehameha Schools Maui and Seabury Hall both closed Tuesday and will remain closed today. Some businesses in the Kulamalu Town Center were reported to be closed Tuesday. The Kulamalu area was blanketed with smoke from the Kula fire Tuesday morning.
King Kekaulike High School, where students had not yet returned from summer break, was closed Tuesday and will remain closed today, the state Department of Education said Tuesday evening. The Lahaina District Court closed on Tuesday due to a power outage. All items that were due to be filed Tuesday in the court were extended by one day, while all hearings scheduled for Tuesday will be rescheduled, giving due consideration to statutory mandates, the state Judiciary said in an email. Also, Princess Nahi’ena’ena Elementary was closed and freshman orientation at Lahainaluna High School was canceled for Tuesday.
Students in grades 10-12 were not on campus because they had a waiver day, the state Department of Education said in a news release. A waiver day was also already in place for Tuesday for students of King Kamehameha III Elementary and Lahaina Intermediate. All four schools remain closed today.
Businesses all over West Maui announced via social media that they had closed due to power outages, including Merriman’s Maui in Kapalua, HouseMart Ace Hardware at Lahaina Gateway, the Hawai’i Wildlife Discovery Center and Maui County Federal Credit Union’s Lahaina branch. Maui County’s Upcountry swimming pool and Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office in Pukalani were closed Tuesday due to smoke conditions.
Kula Community Center was closed due to lack of power. Haleakala National Park’s Summit District will remain closed today due to blocked road access as well as power outages from the wildfires and high winds.
All sunrise reservations for today are also canceled. The park said it will reopen when conditions improve. Updates will be posted at www.nps.gov/hale.
Maui County Council Member Tamara Paltin, who lives in Napili, said power was out all day Tuesday and that family cellphones were working intermittently. She said businesses that were able to open, such as Honolua Store, were packed with lines of folks grabbing drinks and something to eat.
In West Maui, evacuations spanned Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu, Kelawea Mauka, the Lahaina Bypass and Wahikuli. Martin said that people leaving Lahaina were hindered by downed power lines that forced the closure of Honoapiilani Highway from Hokiokio Place to the Lahaina Bypass.
The road reopened after 5 p.m. after the lines were cleared. Shortly before 8 p.m., the county closed the Lahaina-bound section of the highway starting at Maalaea.
Traffic built up as residents and workers hurried to evacuate amid fire and smoke. A group of employees from the ABC store at the Wharf Cinema Center used the beach fronting Kamehameha Iki Park to evacuate.
Worker Abby Galam said she was worried about her family along Lahainaluna Road but had not been able to reach them with cell service and power out. “We’ve been praying,” she said as she and her co-workers walked the beach, ducking under a fallen ironwood tree and timing the waves sweeping up to the top of the beach’s concrete breakwall.
Some folks in Lahaina even jumped into the ocean to escape the fire and smoke, according to Martin, who said the U.S. Coast came to transport them to safety. The hazardous conditions sent some first responders to the hospital.
In West Maui, a firefighter suffered from smoke inhalation and was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition, Martin said. In Olinda, a Maui Police Department officer suffered smoke inhalation while assisting with resident evacuations. The officer was treated and released from Maui Memorial Medical Center, a police spokesperson said. In addition to the Pukalani shelter, emergency shelters also opened at the Lahaina Civic Center, Maui High and Kihei Community Center.
Martin said the Kihei shelter opened to accommodate evacuated residents around the island, not because of the fire in the Pulehu area, which forced the closure of Pulehu Road between Omaopio Road and Kula Highway around 7:30 p.m. On Tuesday night, a fire truck could be seen watering down buildings at the brand-new Kulanihako’i High School as a precaution with the fire in the distance. Martin said no evacuations were in effect for Kihei as of Tuesday night. Shortly before 10 p.m., Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen issued an emergency proclamation in response to the fires.

Best Western Hotels and Outrigger this morning are responding to the loss of their hotels to the Maui wildfires and are prioritizing the safety of guests and workers.
Meanwhile, other hotel companies on Maui and elsewhere across the islands are working to assist displaced kamaaina. Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center, said the center had been prepared yesterday to shelter as many as 4,000 visitors and residents, including homeless individuals, and their pets.
However, there were logistical challenges on Maui due to the lack of power, phone and cell phone service, and internet. Officials also had difficulties initially in arranging transportation as the large busses needed special escorts on the bypass.
Orton said shelter guests peaked at about 69 around midnight, with about 50 guests arriving between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. “All of them were visitors,” she said.
She said she was told that many evacuees decided to stay at the airport to wait for flights out. “Hawaiian even opened up part of a wing in holding area,” she said. Orton said other visitors appeared to have found accommodations on Oahu and went straight to those hotels to continue their vacations.
However, she said she is expecting more arrivals today. Various forms of transportation are available for evacuees from the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport to the center.
Uber has coordinated with state and federal authorities and has announced that it will provide discounted rides to the center, up to $40 off when applying the discount code MAUI23 in the wallet of the Uber app, to Maui fire evacuees arriving on Oahu. Two Maui hotels are among the massive property losses of the wildfire sweeping through historic downtown Lahaina. The historic Best Western Pioneer Inn in the heart of Lahaina was “obliterated — unfortunately, it was just destroyed,” according to Mufi Hannemann, president and CEO of the Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Association, who spent today tracking visitor industry impacts and helping to coordinate assistance for guests, workers, the broader community as well as first responders and emergency workers.
Mike White, a Hawaii Tourism Authority (HTA) board member, confirmed that The Plantation Inn, on 174 Lahainaluna Rd. in the heart of Lahaina Town, also has burned down.
He said he expects that there could more hotels in Lahaina that have sustained damages and perhaps in nearby Napili-Honokowai where there are quite a number of smaller properties, but getting updates has been challenging as phone and internet service in West Maui has been down. The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, is one of nine buildings that constitute the Lahaina Historic District.
The 34-room hotel was located at 658 Wharf St. It joined Best Western Hotels & Resorts in 1997, and since 2016 had been a member of the Historic Hotels of America since 2016. Best Western did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Outrigger Hospitality Group closed on a purchase of The Plantation Inn in late July as part of a deal with also included the Ka‘anapali Beach Hotel. White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties, retired July 25. Outrigger could not be reached for an immediate comment; however, White said the 18-room bed-and-breakfast, which also housed Gerard’s Restaurant, had employed about 10 workers.
White said The Plantation Inn was built in the late 1980s; however, it was designed to reflect the old-fashioned charm of Lahaina, which had once been Hawaii’s capitol. He said Ka‘anapali hotels to the best of his knowledge so far have been buffered from the wildfires by the golf courses and roadways.
Still, he said he has confirmed that at least eight of the staff at the Ka‘anapali Beach Hotel and The Plantation Inn have lost their homes. “Imagine combining the loss of your home with the potential loss of your job.
It’s simply heartbreaking,” White said. Hannemann, a recent appointee to the HTA board, said it’s still too early to assess all the impacts that the wildfires and winds have had on the visitor industry and to the community. Most of the focus now is on crisis management, he said.

Maui fire crews continue to battle three large wildfires–one in Lahaina, one in Pūlehu that has traveled down to Kīhei; and one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since it was first reported early Tuesday morning. Below are updates, which are posted as they become available.
A mass bus evacuation for residents and visitors in West Maui will resume at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, Aug. 10. Bus boarding will be staged at Whalers Village entryway fronting Kāʻanapali Parkway.
Visitors will be taken directly to the Kahului Airport. Residents will be taken to a Central Maui shelter.
Three Roberts Hawaiʻi Motor coaches, each with a capacity of 49 people will be available. Additional buses from partner agencies will be added in based on demand.
The County of Maui opened two additional emergency evacuation shelters—at King’s Cathedral Maui at 777 Maui Veteran’s Highway in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului. The additional shelter sites were opened in order to accommodate full occupancy at existing shelters locations.
Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.
As firefighting efforts continue, 36 fatalities have been discovered today amid the active Lahaina fire. The 36 total includes the six deaths reported earlier today.
As of this evening, Maui Fire Department reported no significant changes for the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires. There are no containment numbers at this time.
MFD expects to conduct an assessment at first light Thursday. Firefighters have dealing with multiple flareups.
Additional firefighter personnel from Honolulu have been requested. Thirty US Army service members arrived tonight and are conducting search and recovery efforts on Thursday morning.
Three shelters are currently open: Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani, War Memorial gymnasium in Wailuku and Maui High School gymnasium in Kahului. American Red Cross said that 942 people are at the three shelters as of 10 p.m. On Tuesday night, there were about 2,100 in Maui shelters. Entry into Lahaina remains restricted as firefighting efforts continue.
Motorists already in West Maui may exit the area via Māʻalaea and Waiheʻe. Only Kahakuloa residents may enter Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe.
On Wednesday, the evacuation of West Maui visitors continued, with more than 11,000 travelers and 400 airline personnel leaving Maui, said Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation. “We are trying to get the travelers who need to leave, off the island,” he said at a news conference Wednesday night.
A mass evacuation for visitors at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kāʻanapali ended late Wednesday. County transportation officials said bus evacuations for visitors will resume Thursday at a Lahaina location and time to be announced.
To get more visitors off the island, the transpacific flights — Alaska, Delta, United and American — have increased capacity by bringing in larger planes to get more seats. “Southwest has dropped its fares and Hawaiian Airlines is operating until 2 a.m.
[Thursday] to get as many people off Maui as possible,” Sniffen said. “Even with that, we still had some empty seats on the flights because today the [Honoapiʻilani] Highway was shutdown for most of the day and for good reason.
Maui County ran nine buses on Wednesday to get 450 to 460 people out to Kahului Airport to ensure people flew on the flights Hawaiian Airlines had added. Sniffen said 600 people would be staying at the airport Wednesday night, and be “accommodated,” to get them ready for the early Thursday morning flights.
Maui County will be running more buses on Thursday. The buses pickup people in West Maui and bring them to the airport. Sniffen said there will be an additional capacity of 2,000 seats for the 1,500 or so passengers that want to leave the island Thursday.
The Hawaiʻi National Guard helicopter crews flew 13 hours on Wednesday, making 58 drops with 150,000 gallons of water for fire suppression. The crews will make more water drops on Thursday as needed, said Major General Kenneth S. Hara with the Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense.
*Cammy Clark and Wendy Osher contributed to this update. Firefighting efforts continue at the in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry areas.
The photos above are from the Pūlehu/Kīhei fire and were taken from the corner of Olukai and Hoalike Street in Kīhei on Wednesday afternoon. More photos/information HERE.
Hawaiʻi Community Foundation and Maui United Way are accepting online monetary donations to benefit Maui residents affected by fires. The Hawaiʻi Community Foundation started a Maui Strong Fund to support residents affected by the wildfires, which firefighting crews continue to battle in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry areas.
Donations can be made at www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/maui-strong. Maui United Way is accepting donations to its Maui Fire and Disaster Relief fund at https://mauiunitedway.org/disasterrelief.
While the verified donation sites can be used to make monetary donations, donations of non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted at the War Memorial Complex from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday. Those wishing to donate should enter the complex through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left.
Donations of hot and perishable food cannot be accepted at the dropoff site. After the donation site was set up in the late morning Wednesday, the line of vehicles dropping off donations was about a mile long.
Semitrucks transported the food and supplies to shelter locations. Shelters remain open at War Memorial Gymnasium in Wailuku, Maui High School in Kahului and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. *People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767.
Active duty military components under US Indo-Pacific Command are providing support to firefighting efforts on Maui and Hawai’i island. The US Army 25th Combat Aviation Brigade deployed two UH-60 Blackhawks and one CH-47 Chinook to Hawai’i Island to conduct firefighting operations. Additionally, US Navy Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron 37 sent MH-60R Seahawk helicopters to assist the US Coast Guard in search and rescue operations.
At 5:45 p.m., Tuesday, Coast Guard Sector Honolulu watchstanders received reports regarding multiple persons in the water needing rescue after taking shelter from fire and smoke in Lahaina, Maui. Tuesday evening, the Coast Guard’s 45-foot Response Boat Medium crew arrived on scene and rescued 14 survivors from the Lahaina Harbor Breakwall with all survivors reported to be in stable condition. Additional information and further details are posted HERE.
Hawaiian Airlines is extending its operations today with three additional late-night flights to Honolulu from Kahului to help evacuate travelers affected by brush fires on Maui. The new flights were timed to meet travelers expected to arrive at Kahului via Maui County buses. Flights are scheduled to depart Kahului starting at 11:10 p.m. today through 2 a.m. tomorrow.
Hawaiian earlier today added six extra flights between Honolulu and Kahului to accommodate departures out of Maui, as well as support emergency response efforts. Currently, four extra Kahului-Honolulu flights have been added for tomorrow, Aug. 10.
Hawaiian is continuing to offer reduced $19 main cabin fares out of Maui to facilitate urgent travel needs. Additional information and further details are posted HERE.
A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kaʻanapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport. Five County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at the Sheraton at about 4 p.m. Personal vehicles can go to the airport through Kahahuloa.
Rental vehicles may be left on site. On Wedneday afternoon, the Transportation Security Administration was reporting that seats are available on outgoing flights at Kahului Airport. Travelers need to call airlines to make reservations.
Full report HERE. A federal team arrived on Maui today and is on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts amid the active Lahaina fire.
Flyovers today of Lahaina town by US Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department showed that more than 271 structures have been impacted. Widespread damage to the West Maui town, the harbor and surrounding areas are being documented. As of this afternoon, Maui Fire Department reported no significant changes for the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu fires.
There are no new evacuations. There are no containment numbers at this time.
Maui Fire Department has requested 20 additional firefighters from Honolulu and an incident management team. Close to 100 Maui firefighters have been on duty around the clock, including 11 from state airport firefighting and rescue personnel.
Four helicopters have been deployed for water drops in Lahaina. Firefighters are addressing spot fires around Lahaina town.
Two Chinooks, along with four Windward Aviation helicopters, have been battling all three fires with water drops. Three additional helicopters from US Coast Guard and US Navy were conducting search and rescue along the West Maui coastline.
Motorists may not enter Lahaina during the active fire, but people already in Lahaina may exit via Kahakuloa. Maui police are stationed at Māʻalaea and at Waiheʻe to prevent entry into Lahaina until the area is secure. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe.
Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry Maui Fires Combined Update No. 7, 3:50 p.m.:Due to limited resources in this time of crisis, visitors with vehicles or any means of transportation are being asked to leave Lahaina and Maui as soon as possible.
A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kāʻanapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport. Five County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at the Sheraton at about 4 p.m. today.
Personal vehicles can go to the airport through Kahahuloa. Rental vehicles may be left on site. On Wedneday afternoon, the Transportation Security Administration was reporting that seats are available on outgoing flights at Kahului Airport.
Travelers need to call airlines to make reservations. Motorists may not enter Lahaina during the active fire, but people already in Lahaina may exit via Kahakuloa.
Maui police are stationed at Ma’alaea and at Waihee to prevent entry into Lahaina until the area is secure. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe.
West Maui remains without power and has no landline or cellphone service. Firefighting crews are continuing to battle a fire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, as well as fires in the Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry areas. There have been no changes in containment for the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires.
Maui Memorial Medical Center has been treating burn, smoke inhalation, and other fire-related injuries as a result of the Maui fires since last night. As of this afternoon, all patients have been cared for; five have been admitted, including two for critical injuries. Additionally, since last night, seven patients have been transferred to Oʻahu for specialty services, including some fire-related injuries.
All other patients have been treated and released. The full story is posted HERE, including information on how to find out if your family member or friend is in the hospital.
Maui police say there is still absolutely no traffic into Lahaina allowed except for emergency vehicles. Motorists wishing to leave West Maui can do so via the Honoapiʻilani Highway or through Kahakuloa.
Both routes are one way only, headed out of Lahaina Town. Entry is reserved for first responders only.
Visitors who were stranded in Central Maui and need to get their belongings at accommodations in West Maui, are unable to access the area as the wildfire is still not contained. Visitors should check with their airlines and accommodations to make arrangements accordingly.
Road closure updates are posted HERE. Haleakalā Hwy and Kualono Pl, mauka of Kula Lodge. Footage was taken this morning in Kula.
Due to the fires, some Hawaiian Telcom customers on Maui are experiencing intermittent phone and internet service outages. Affected areas include Lahaina, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, Kula, and Makawao.
Customers are encouraged to keep non-essential calls to a minimum to ensure that lines can remain open for emergency purposes. For safety, please avoid downed lines as they could be active electric lines that are dangerous to touch. Moving them could also hamper restoration efforts.
The 911 system is operational; however, customers whose phone service is impacted may not be able to connect. Texting 911 using a mobile phone may be an option to reach emergency services. The full story is posted HERE.
More than 140 people were evacuated on Tuesday from the Westside Center shelter operated by Ka Hale A Ke Ola Homeless Resource Centers. Of those evacuated, over 25 were taken by KHAKO staff to the Wailuku shelter for emergency housing.
The nonprofit agency is requesting emergency donations of blankets, pillows and towels for evacuated families. For more information or to make a donation, call (808) 242-7600.
The full story is posted HERE. Any kūpuna that need additional assistance and care.
If you have any urgent care needs, you may go to Hale Makua Kahului Facility for treatment at 472 Kaulana Street in Kahului. No appointment necessary.
If you have any questions regarding the urgent care services at Hale Makua, please contact Hale Makua’s temporary command center hotline at 808-871-9221. Hale Makua would like to emphasize that they are not setup to assist emergency medical situations. Hale Makua urges the community to call/text 911 or go to the nearest hospital emergency department for life-threatening emergency medical needs.
Haleakalā National Park’s Summit District remains closed to visitors due to high winds and wildfires located outside the park. The Kīpahulu District of the park will close at 3 pm today.
Both districts of the park will remain closed until further notice. Camping reservations for Hosmer Grove, backcountry tent camping and cabins, and Kīpahulu campground for August 9 through August 10, 2023 are canceled.
Sunrise reservations for August 10, 2023 are canceled. Haleakalā National Park will reopen once conditions improve. Any changes in the park’s status will be posted at www.nps.gov/hale.
War Memorial Complex is open today and Thursday as a dropoff center for donations for emergency shelters housing fire evacuees on Maui. Non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted.
Those wishing to donate should enter the complex through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left. The dropoff center will be open through 6 p.m. today and from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday. Fire stations are unable to accept donations for shelters.
Firefighting crews are continuing to battle fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry that were fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as it passed well south of the Hawaiian islands. More than 2,100 people were housed overnight Tuesday in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Prepatory Academy in Napili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani.
There have been six fatalities confirmed so far from the brush fires reported across Maui, according to Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning. He said crews are still in a search and rescue mode, and firefighting efforts continue at the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires.
Major General Kenneth S. Hara, Adjutant General, Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense said, “Right now, the priority is saving lives, preventing human suffering, and mitigating great property loss.” According to Gen. Hara, the state will be working with communications companies, and will be utilizing Cell on Wheels technology. “Because of fiberoptic cable was damaged and needs to be assessed, we think that could take over a month to get repaired,” said Gen. Hara.
The active duty 25th combat aviation brigade out of Schofield provided two UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters with 6,600 gallon water buckets to support fire suppression efforts. A CH-47 Chinook has a 2,000 gallon water bucket, with another on standby.
The Hawaiʻi National Guard dispatched two CH-47 Chinook helicopters. One landed just after 9 a.m., and a second is set to go. The National Guard has also dispatched a specialized search and rescue crew.
Mayor Bissen called the situation a “truly devastating experience.” According to the mayor, the county is able to deploy more assets today, including air support, which was not used yesterday because of the dangers posed by high winds.
“We did not anticipate having this many fires going simultaneously. We have drawn assets from every place on Maui except for Hana,” said Mayor. Bissen.
The Kula fire was last estimated at 1100 acres; the fire in Lahaina continues to have flare ups; and crews continue to battle the Kihei fire, mauka of Piʻilani Highway near Pūlehu Road. There is no containment on any of the fires.
Residents of Launiupoko Estates area off Punakea Loop are ordered to evacuate immediately. A shelter is open at the Maui Preparatory Academy. Firefighting crews continue to battle a wildfire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, with four helicopters launched this morning to assist in the firefighting efforts.
Improving weather conditions allowed for the helicopters, including ones from the US Coast Guard and Navy, to launch after high winds, including gusts of up to 80 mph, made conditions unsafe for helicopter operations. There have been no changes in containment for the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires.
More than 2,100 people were housed overnight in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Prepatory Academy in Nāpili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Kīhei residents who were evacuated last night were cleared to return to their homes shortly after 6 a.m. today, while firefighters continued fighting a Pūlehu fire mauka of Kīhei.
Evacuees at the Maui Prepatory Academy shelter were notified to leave to go to Kāʻanapali hotels to gather their belongings and evacuate Lahaina through Kahakuloa. The Coast Guard reported rescuing 14 people from the ocean off Lahaina on Tuesday.
Among them were two young children who were reunited with family members. Close to 100 firefighters have been on duty, including 11 from state airport firefighting and rescue personnel.
In West Maui, challenges included access to ingress routes for heavy equipment. The county Department of Public Works was continuing to clear roads in West Maui. Barricades are set up at Front Street, Lahainaluna Road and Papalaua Street.
Lahaina remains without telephone service, either by landline or cellphone. In Upcountry Maui, firefighters were focused on protecting structures.
About 2,000 travelers from canceled and arriving flights Tuesday were sheltered overnight at Kahului Airport, while plans were underway for transporting them off island. People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767.
Effective today, Aug. 9, 2023, the Kaiser Permanente Lahaina and Kihei Clinics are closed. Members with appointments scheduled at these clinics will be contacted to reschedule. Members needing to make same-day or urgent care appointments can visit the Maui Lani Medical Office or schedule a phone, video, or e-visit via kp.org or through the KP mobile app.
The Wailuku Medical Office also remains open. For prescription refills, members can visit kp.org/pharmacy or call 808-643-7979.
Kaiser Permanente staff and providers on Maui are asked to check in with their respective teams as soon as possible for further instructions and support. Due to the fires on Maui, Bank of Hawai‘i has announced that it has temporarily closed its Lahaina and Kahana branches, today Tuesday, Aug. 9, until further notice.
Kahului Airport remains open. All non-essential travel to Maui is strongly discouraged.
At this time, police are allowing traffic out of Lahaina through the bypass. Those seeking flights off island can reach OGG using the bypass and Kahekili Highway.
Many airlines have travel advisories and vouchers for the emergency period. State Department of Tansportation staff report decreased visibility from heavy smoke on the Lahaina Bypass from Kai Hele Ku headed north.
Governor Josh Green, M.D. said he is responding to the wildfire emergency affecting the people of Maui and Hawai‘i Counties by returning home to the islands immediately. “The wind-fueled fires have devastated many of our communities and people will be looking to our office for leadership while we address the ongoing emergency and do what we can as a state to rebuild lives,” said Gov. Green.
The Governor has been in contact with the leadership team including Acting Governor Sylvia Luke, getting regular updates on Hurricane Dora which passed Hawai‘i to the south, and on the fires as they began. He has also been in contact with the White House as Hawaiʻi prepares for what will inevitably be a request for emergency federal assistance.
“We have suffered a terrible disaster in the form of a wildfire that has spread widely as a result of hurricane-force winds in the region and underlying drought conditions. Maui and the Big Island both experienced significant fires.
Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced,” said Governor Green. “Our state appreciates the incredible outpouring of concern and prayers from the mainland. We won’t forget the aloha you have already begun to share with us,” he said.
The Governor had been scheduled to return to Hawai‘i from personal travel August 15, but will be back in the state tonight to address the crisis. Acting Governor Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation to extend the state of emergency to all counties, discourage non-essential air travel to Maui, and to order all affected state agencies to assist with evacuations due to ongoing wildfires on Maui caused by winds from Hurricane Dora.
As the wildfires continue, visitors with current and planned lodging at West Maui hotels may not have accommodations. “This proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so we can prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance,” Lieutenant Governor Luke said.
The proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart the island as soon as safe and practicable. This follows the first emergency proclamation signed Tues., Aug. 8 authorizing several actions including activation of the National Guard, authorizes appropriate actions by the director of the Hawaiʻi Emergency Management Agency and the Administrator of Emergency Management, as well as the expenditure of state general revenue funds for relief of conditions created by Hurricane Dora. We have reports of ongoing firefighting efforts on Front Street in Lahaina where multiple businesses were affected by the fire in West Maui.
The area remains closed off to the public. The National Guard is expected to assist with recovery efforts at some point.
Multiple fires are still burning and the public is advised to monitor reports for any potential evacuation notices. Firefighters are also actively fighting the wildfire in Kula this morning. The Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation is urging visitors to leave while emergency crews continue work to put out wildfires on Maui, and halt any non-essential travel to Maui in light of devastating and damaging fires.
Motorists are reminded that it is critical to leave roads open for emergency personnel only. The HDOT advises that visitors looking to leave the island can contact Southwest Airlines, which has 1,000 seats available as of this morning.
Hawaiian Airlines is continuing to monitor the emergency fire response on Maui. The state of Hawaiʻi is discouraging non-essential travel to Kahului, and the airline is supporting guests with flexible options to change their flights or receive a refund by calling the reservations team at 1-800-367-5320.
The airline asks that guests with non-urgent travel inquiries to call back later so that the airline can assist those with immediate needs. Guests traveling to and from Maui should continue to check their flight status on the company’s website or app before coming to the airport.
“The safety of our guests and employees, including teammates who live and work on Maui, is our priority, and we will continue to support the state with its ongoing response,” according to airline officials. Approximately 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at the Kahului Airport (OGG), with many west side highways closed.
The Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina, Kihei and Upcountry. 911 service in West Maui remains unavailable.
For emergencies, text 911. Do not call the Lahaina Station.
Update: 4 a.m. NO traffic is being allowed into West Maui, via the Honoapiʻilani Highway or Kahekili Highway.
All roads in Lahaina Town are closed. The area is only open to emergency personnel. This includes all roads between Wahikuli Wayside Park on the north, to Kai Hele Kū Street to the south.
Honoapiʻilani Highway remains closed to Lahaina bound traffic at Māʻalaea and in Kapalua. Kahekili is closed in Waiheʻe, according to HIDOT. Maui fire crews continue to battle three large wildfires–one in Lahaina, one in Pūlehu that has traveled down to Kīhei; and one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since it was first reported early Tuesday morning.
The Maui Fire Department is advising “immediate proactive evacuation” of residents of Holopuni and Pūlehu roads in Kula. In South Maui, proactive evacuations are also issued for subdivisions north and south of Lipoa Parkway down to Maui Meadows and the Ohukai subdivision in Kīhei. The Lahaina Civic Center evacuation site has been moved to Maui Preparatory Academy in Nāpili-Honokōwai to place evacuees away from impacted Lahaina Town.
Residents at the Kihei Community Center evacuation site have been relocated to Maui High School as a precautionary measure. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.
The following Maui Bus Fixed Route services will be suspended until further notice: Lahaina Islander Route #20, Lahaina Villager Route #23, Kāʻanapali Islander Route #25, and West Maui Islander Route #28. Bus riders are encouraged to check the Maui Bus app for updates. Maui Bus ADA Paratransit Service and MEO Human Service Transportation trips to/from and within the West Maui area are suspended until further notice.
All Maui Bus Commuter Services will be suspended until further notice. All other bus services are planned to run as scheduled, but may experience delays due to roadway conditions impacted by brush fires.
Maui’s brush fires are currently not impacting Kahului Airport (OGG) schedule as of midnight on Aug. 9; However, as the situation continues to evolve, Hawaiian Airlines encourage guests who are flying to or from Maui to check their website and mobile app for further updates on individual flights. 911 service in West Maui is not available at this time, as of 12:17 a.m. on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023.
For emergencies call the Lahaina Police Department directly at 808-661-4441. An evacuation order has been issued for the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows due to a brushfire, according to Maui Emergency Management Agency.
People in the area are advised to evacuate your family and pets immediately. The recommended shelter to use is the Maui High School gym or the Kīhei Community Center.
Expect conditions that may make driving difficult and watch for public safety personnel operating in the area. The Kīhei fire is reportedly an extension of the Pūlehu fire reported on Tuesday evening.
Firefighter crews continue to battle brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas. Mayor Bissen issued an emergency proclamation in response to fires, and the County has requested support from the National Guard.
The American Red Cross has opened Maui High School as an evacuation center. Wahikuli residents in West Maui were evacuated this evening.
Those who sought shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center were being transported further north to Maui Preparatory Academy instead. The Coast Guard has been responding to impacted areas where “residents had entered the ocean” due to smoke and fire conditions.
Individuals were transported by the Coast Guard to safe areas, according to the latest update from the County of Maui. A firefighter who was responding to the West Maui fire has experienced smoke inhalation and was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition. Hononoapiʻilani Highway remains open to outbound traffic only.
Motorist should expect heavy traffic and delays. We have reports that residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui spent three hours in traffic as they attempted the drive to Central Maui between 6 and 9 p.m. There were also limited options for gas with many of the gas stations closed on the West side, according to area residents. Water buffalos containing drinking water are located at Kula Fire Station, Kula Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road – Hydrant 373.
Multiple evacuation orders are in place, including a call for evacuations along Kahoma Street at around 9:30 p.m. Structure damages have occurred; however, county officials were unable to provide details on the extent of damages at this time. The American Red Cross is staffing emergency shelters at Kīhei Community Center in South Maui, and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center.
Pet owners utilizing the shelters need to have pets properly restrained. Kahoma Street evacuations are underway in West Maui as of 9:33 p.m.
We have reports that residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui spent three hours in traffic as they attempted the drive to Central Maui. There were also limited options for gas with many of the gas stations closed on the West side.
There are multiple road closures in West Maui. Maui police are advising motorists should avoid Lahiana Town.
Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed to Lahaina bound traffic at Leialiʻi Parkway. Kāʻanapali bound traffic is open as of 8:07 p.m.
We also have reports of a brush fire that forced the closure of Pūlehu Road between Ōmaʻopio Rd and Kula Highway at around 7:30 p.m. The Kula fire continues to burn with crews still on scene there.
That fire has burned more than 1,000 acres at last report. The US Coast Guard Cutter Joseph Gerczak, a MH-65 Dolphin aircrew, and a small boat crew from Station Maui have deployed to Front Street and Lahaina Small Boat Harbor in the response effort to the fire in West Maui. “Multiple structures have burned” and multiple evacuations are in place, as firefighter crews continue battling brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas, County officials report.
We checked in with Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. this evening as high winds continue and nightfall approaches. “Today we are experiencing challenges in the West Maui and Upcountry areas.
Our firefighter crews and other emergency responders have been battling brush fire conditions since early this morning. High winds and unpredictable conditions have caused multiple evacuations,” he said in an evening phone call with Maui Now / Pacific Media Group.
“Today we are focused on keeping our people safe—residents, visitors and emergency responders. I ask for your continued vigilance and that you make good decisions, keep safe, stay away from downed power lines, and evacuate when necessary,” said Mayor Bissen.
In West Maui, fire crews from Nāpili, Lahaina, Kihei and Wailuku responded to the fast-moving fire, which was fueled by strong winds as Hurricane Dora passed well south of Hawaiʻi. On the West side, evacuations occurred at Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu, Kelawea Mauka and Lahaina Bypass.
Honoapiʻilani Highway from Hōkiokio Place to Lahaina Bypass was reopened at about 5 p.m., following the clearing of downed power lines, to allow access in and out of Lahaina via Hōkiokio Place. Motorists are advised to expect traffic to be slowed through the bypass. In Upcountry Maui, where firefighters from Kula, Makawao, Kahului and Wailea were assigned, crews were focused on the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle at about 5 p.m.
The Fire Department called for the evacuation of residents from the subdivision. The Upcountry fire, reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road, led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas.
As of Tuesday afternoon, the perimeter of the Upcountry fire was about 1,000 acres and reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge. The American Red Cross is staffing emergency shelters at Lahaina Civic Center and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center.
Pet owners utilizing the shelters need to have pets properly restrained. “We’ll need to watch out for each other as we make our way through today’s hazardous conditions in the Upcountry and West Maui areas,” said Mayor Bissen.
An apparent flareup of the Lahaina fire forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass around 3:30 p.m. Evacuations are occurring in the vicinities of Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu and Lahaina Bypass. Kahakuloa is closed to outside traffic.
Only residents of the rural town of Kahakuloa Village are allowed to travel through the remote side of Kahekili Highway. People on the west side are advised to shelter in place unless evacuations are ordered.
Multiple roads, including Honoapiʻilani Highway from Hōkiokio Place to Lahaina Bypass, are closed due to downed power lines. Fueled by strong wind from Hurricane Dora that is passing well south of Hawai’i, a brush fire of about three acres was reported at 6:37 a.m. today in the area of Lahainaluna Road. After area evacuations, the fire was declared 100% contained before 9 a.m.
However, an afternoon flareup forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass. The American Red Cross opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center due to the fire and area power outages tied to high winds.
The shelter will remain open until further notice. For people unable to return to the west side, Pukalani’s Hannibal Tavares Community Center is open as a shelter.
Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.
Due to hazardous road conditions and road closures currently affecting various areas throughout the island, the Maui Police Department is asking that residents and visitors refrain from unnecessary travel, especially to the west side of the island. The Fire Department is calling for the immediate evacuation of residents of the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle due to an Upcountry brush fire. The fire was reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road and led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas.
As of Tuesday afternoon, the perimeter of the fire was about 1,000 acres. Firefighter crews are actively battling the fire, which has reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge.
The American Red Cross is staffing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items.
Evacuees are reminded to bring any medications and pet food. Pet owners utilizing the shelter need to have pets properly restrained.
The Maui Humane Society is providing support for the shelter. Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals.
The cause of the fire remains under investigation. Hawaiian Electric Co. advises residents to stay at least 30 feet or more away from downed power lines, which may be energized.
Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or Hawaiian Electricʻs trouble line at 808-871-7777. With the potential risk of escalating conditions from an Upcountry brush fire, the Fire Department is strongly advising residents of Piʻiholo and Olinda roads to proactively evacuate. The fire was first reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road and led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas.
As of Tuesday afternoon, the perimeter of the fire was more than 1,000 acres. Firefighter crews are actively battling the fire, which has reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge.
Trees and downed power lines on Olinda and Piʻiholo roads were cleared Tuesday to make one lane passable for cars and small trucks. As of Tuesday afternoon, the Fire Department is advising residents of Olinda and Piʻiholo roads to evacuate while they can. Maui Fire officials warn that erratic wind, challenging terrain, steep slopes and dropping humidity, the direction and the location of the fire conditions make it difficult to predict path and speed of a wildfire.
When wind sends fire embers up and sparks ignite fires downwind, creating fires can start at a far distance from their source. The American Red Cross is staffing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Pet owners utilizing the shelter need to have pets properly restrained.
Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. The cause of the fire remains under investigation. Hawaiian Electric Co. advises residents to stay at least 30 feet or more away from downed power lines, which may be energized.
Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or Hawaiian Electricʻs trouble line at (808) 871-7777. Two single family homes were impacted by fire early this morning in the Kula 200 subdivision, according to Mayor Richard Bissen Jr.
One of the homes was evacuated, and no one was home at the other home that sustained damages. More than 675 acres burned within an 1100 acre perimeter area being monitored by fire crews. More than 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas.
54 people sought shelter at the Hannibal Tavares Community Center, along with their 17 dogs and seven cats. The Salvation Army’s Kahului Corps is scheduled to provide meals this evening to the approximately 50 individuals who have taken shelter in Maui County’s/American Red Cross Pukalani shelter. Additionally, The Salvation Army Hawaiian & Pacific Islands Division is prepared to respond with community assistance as needed across the state due to strong winds and fires.
Kaonoulu Ranch has opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Nearly 30 firefighters from different stations responded, along with assets from the private sector and state crews from the Department of Forestry and Wildlife. As the day has gone on, County officials continue to monitoring the winds.
If the wind goes below a tolerance threshold, the County will be able to get more assets in the air for firefighting efforts. Foreground image/interview with Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. by Wendy Osher. Background image: PC: Nicole Mendes (8.8.23).
A separate fire in West Maui burned a total of three acres that was contained by 9:04 a.m. on Tuesday, Aug. 8. Two people sought shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center.
Power outages in West Maui forced the closure of the Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office in Lahaina. Haleakalā National Park’s Summit District remains closed to visitors due to blocked road access as well as power outages resulting from wildfires and high winds.
All sunrise reservations for Aug. 9, 2023 are canceled. A fire in Kula has burned an estimated 675 acres since it was first reported at around 12:22 a.m. near Olinda Road. The fire resulted in the evacuation of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas early this morning.
At 11:55 a.m, County officials said the fire remains active, with no estimate on containment.. Two single family homes were burned. No injuries were reported, and the cause is under investigation.
High winds, including gusts of up to 80 mph reported in the area, were making conditions unsafe for helicopter operations, according to a County of Maui update. Firefighter crews and tankers from Kula, Makawao, Kahului and Wailea were deployed and are on scene.
State Department of Land and Natural Resources Division of Forestry and Wildlife crews, tankers, engines and heavy equipment are assisting county firefighters. Goodfellow Bros., Haleakalā Ranch, Kaonoulu Ranch and Kaupō Ranch also deployed heavy equipment to assist with firebreaks.
As of 7 a.m., 54 residents were at an emergency shelter staffed by the American Red Cross at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.
Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Residents in nearby areas should stay informed and make preparations should the active fire reach close proximity and officials call for additional evacuation.
Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakalā Highway at Lower Kimo Road and Haleakalā Highway at Kula Highway are closed to motorists. Heavy smoke conditions in the area exist.
A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of Maui County, including the Haleakalā summit, remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. The County of Maui’s swimming pool and Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office located in Pukalani are closed due to smoke conditions.
Kula Community Center was closed due to the lack of power. The Department of Water Supply asks Upcountry residents to conserve water because power outages are afffecting the ability to pump water to certain locations.
The Maui Fire Department has declared the Lahaina brush fire 100% contained shortly before 9 a.m. today; However, power outages are impacting the ability to pump water, and the public is asked to conserve water in West Maui. Fueled by strong wind from Hurricane Dora that is passing well south of Hawai’i, a brush fire of about three acres was reported at 6:37 a.m. today in the area of Lahainaluna Road.
Evacuations were ordered at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. There were two people at the Lahaina Civic Center evacuation shelter as of 8:50 a.m. Lahainaluna Road remains closed between Kelawea and Kuialua streets while Hawaiian Electric responds to a downed power line in the area.
The American Red Cross opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center due to the fire and area power outages tied to high winds. The shelter will remain open until further notice, but the facility has no power.
Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained. Winds in the area remain a concern.
A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of Maui County remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. The cause of the fire remains under investigation. The Hawaii Judiciary advises: The Lahaina District Courthouse in West Maui is closed today due to a power outage in the area.
Kaiser Permanente Hawaiʻi is reporting a closure of its Lahaina Clinic today due to fire, high winds and power outages in the area. Members with appointments scheduled today, will be contacted to reschedule. A brush fire was reported at 6:37 a.m. today in the area of Lahainaluna Road.
Evacuations were ordered at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. Fire crews from Nāpili, Lahaina and Kīhei are on scene.
Lahainaluna Road is closed between Kelawea Street and Kuialua Street. The American Red Cross has opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.
Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Winds in the area are a concern.
A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of Maui County remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. Maui fire crews continue to battle a brush fire reported shortly after midnight this morning, in the Olinda Road area of Kula.
Residents in the Auliʻi Drive area were evacuated at 3:45 a.m. At 4:50 a.m. residents of Hanamu Road were also evacuated.
Firefighter crews from Kula, Makawao, Kahului, and Wailea are on scene. The Fire Department’s Air One helicopter was launched at daybreak to conduct aerial assessment of the fire.
The American Red Cross has opened Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani as an evacuation center. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained. As of 7 a.m., 54 residents were at the emergency shelter.
Kaonoulu Ranch has opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakalā Highway at Lower Kimo Road, and Haleakalā Highway at Kula Highway are closed to motorists.
The County of Maui’s swimming pool located in Pukalani has been closed due to smoke conditions. Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Heavy smoke conditions in the area exist.
A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of Maui County, including the Haleakalā summit, remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. Lahainaluna Road is closed from the Lahaina Bypass to Kuialua Street due to a brush fire in West Maui.
That fire is also being fueled by strong winds. The Hawai‘i State Department of Education has closed four schools in West Maui due to unsafe conditions caused by heavy winds, including flying debris, downed power poles and trees.
Most of the schools were not scheduled to have students on campus today. Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary :
School closed to students and staff. Families have been notified by the school.
: School closed to students and staff. Families have been notified by the school.
King Kamehameha III Elementary : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today. : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today.
Lahaina Intermediate : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today. : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today. Lahainaluna High School: Freshman student orientation canceled.
Previously scheduled waiver day for grades 10-12. The Department is monitoring the brush fire conditions in Upcountry Maui and other weather impacts statewide.
All other HIDOE schools remain open at this time. Seabury Hall on Olinda Road in Makawao, also announced a school closure today due to the brush fire.
Kamehameha Schools Maui announced it is cancelling classes today (Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023) at its ʻAʻapueo campus in Pukalani due to a brush fire in the Kula 200 area. The fire has created poor air quality, nearby evacuations and road closures.
All Bus routes for KS Maui are cancelled for today. Students/parents are being asked to check their email and notifications.
Multiple streets in the area of King Kekaulike High School have been evacuated due to a dangerous brush fire. Evacuations include: Auliʻi Drive, Hoʻopalua Drive, Hanamu Road and Kealaloa Avenue.
The Maui Emergency Management Agency advises residents in these areas to grab their “go Kits” and evacuate family and pets now. A shelter is being opened at the Hannibal Tavares Community Center.
An evacuation order has been issued for the Kula 200 subdivision off of Auliʻi Drive due to an ongoing brush fire reported overnight. The Maui Emergency Management Agency issued the notification saying residents in the area should grab their “go kits” and evacuate their family and pets. Haleakalā Highway (377) is closed between Kula Highway and Lower Kimo Drive due to a brush fire reported overnight. Police have also closed Kealaloa Road from Hanamu Road to the Haleakalā Highway (377) due to ongoing firefighting efforts.

Honolulu firefighters battled two brushfires simultaneously on Thursday that burned about 250 acres of land on Oahu. At 10:12 a.m., the Honolulu Fire Department received a 911 call for a brush fire at Kamehameha Highway and Paalaa Uka Pupukea Road, about a mile north of Dole Planation on Oahu’s North Shore. A total of 20 units responded, including the Air 1 and Air 2 helicopters.
Shortly before 8 p.m. Thursday, the fire was 50% contained, said HFD, and roadways reopened. Firefighting operations were suspended overnight, but a drone team remained on fire watch.
Approximately 225 acres, burned, according to HFD. A second brush fire also broke out on about 25 acres near Central Oahu Regional Park in Waipio at about 11 a.m. Thursday.
A total of 19 units, including Air 1 and Air 2, responded. That fire was declared contained at 4:12 p.m. Thursday.
There were no threats to lives, homes or structures, and no evacuations. No injuries were reported. Approximately a quarter of the state is classified as abnormally dry or in drought, including Oahu’s south and west sides, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor, as peak wildfire season gets underway.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Multiple blazes broke out across Oahu Thursday, including two brush fires, keeping fire crews busy from the early morning and even into the overnight hours.
Dozens of emergency responders rushed to the scene of a fire around 2 a.m. Friday at the South Shore Market building. HFD officials said they were able to put out the fire in about 20 minutes. So far, no word on the cause or extent of damage.
Another blaze happened just hours before in the Kalihi area around 8:30 p.m. Firefighters responded to a single-story home on Makalapua Place, off Halona Street for the two-alarm fire. No injuries were reported and the cause remains under investigation.
Around 12:30 p.m., a fuel truck caught on fire while on a Joint Base Pearl Harbor Hickam flight-line. The truck had been refueling a Marine Corps plane at the time.
Officials said the fire was put out before it could spread to an aircraft and no one was hurt. About 120 gallons in A-triple-F fire suppressant foam was used in the effort. It’s believed it all was confined to the tarmac but the military is looking into potential impacts.
Early Thursday morning, both the Honolulu Fire Department and Federal Fire Department responded to two large brush fires in the North Shore and Waikele areas. At last check, the Waikele brush fire has been fully contained, however the North Shore fire in Paalaa is only 50% contained.
All roads have been reopened. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

In West Maui, recent wildfires have resulted in the devastating loss of loved ones, homes, cultural and historical sites, and businesses in Lahaina.
We extend our deepest condolences and heartfelt aloha to all those who have been affected by this tragedy. We also urge visitors throughout Hawai‘i to be especially mindful and respectful in our island home as our community continues through this extremely difficult time.
The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority is continuously coordinating efforts with federal, state and county emergency management officials, as well as our community partners, visitor industry and Global Marketing Team. We are also providing updates to our travel partners - airlines, accommodations, ground transportation companies, activity providers, travel agents, and wholesalers, as well as to local, national and international media - to ensure the public is kept informed.
HTA's Board of Directors took decisive action today at its monthly board meeting to approve $2.6 million in funding to launch the Maui Marketing Recovery Plan, which is centered around a new Mālama Maui campaign with heartfelt messages shared by kama‘āina of Maui. The plan's focus is to rebuild responsible travel demand from the United States market to Maui in the wake of the devastating Lahaina wildfires. Watch the board meeting.
HTA staff and board members were on Maui over the past weeks to meet with residents and business owners and listen to them about the challenges they now face with visitor arrivals decreasing significantly since August 8. Visitors help to support the economy, supporting local shops, local restaurants, and local activities which ultimately aids in the island’s overall recovery efforts.
On August 21, during his remarks alongside President Joe Biden and Hawaiʻi congressional delegation from the impacted area of Lahaina, Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green continued to emphasize the need to avoid West Maui at this time, as well as the importance of travel to the rest of Maui and the other Hawaiian Islands and the economic impact it has on the well-being of Maui and its recovery. In alignment with Governor Green, the Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority urges visitors to refrain from going to West Maui (including Lahaina, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, and Kapalua) as a means of respect to the people and places that have been lost in Lahaina during this devastating tragedy.
The impacted area of Lahaina remains off limits to the public as the search and recovery efforts continue. Governor Green’s sixth emergency proclamation, issued on August 19 remains in place, with all nonessential travel to West Maui being strongly discouraged for the duration of the proclamation (through October 17, 2023). We encourage travelers to continue visiting other areas of Maui (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island.
For the latest Maui emergency management and recovery information, and how you can kōkua (help) the people of Maui, visit mauistrong.hawaii.gov. At this time, hotels in West Maui have temporarily stopped accepting bookings of future reservations and are housing their employees and families, evacuees, and first responders working on disaster recovery – well over 1,000 people so far with more to come.
More information on efforts to house evacuees can be found at mauistrong.hawaii.gov. Vacation rental owners, as well as anyone with available space, are encouraged to make these accommodations available to temporarily house displaced West Maui residents. The state has set up a referral program to make those connections possible to support West Maui residents in need of housing.
Learn more, offer your space, or look for housing at the Fire Relief Housing Program website. A call center is also available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily at 808-587-0469, or email [email protected].
Airbnb.org has also announced an initiative to provide free, temporary stays to 1,000 people through its network of hosts. Details of that program will be announced in the coming days.
The devastation in Lahaina is immense and unprecedented. The extent of the damage affecting residents, families and area businesses has yet to be fully understood. Experts have warned that hazardous materials are likely present.
The area most affected by the wildfires is off limits to the general public, and we urge visitors to refrain from traveling to West Maui at this time. For updates, visit the County of Maui website: www.mauicounty.gov. Due to the wildfires and their impact on people’s travel plans, the major U.S. airlines serving Kahului Airport have implemented flexible travel policies for changing or canceling flights.
For specific information check with your airline. The U.S. Department of Transportation has posted a page with links to the major carriers serving Kahului Airport.
Anyone wanting to make donations to help communities and families recover on Maui can do so through the Maui Strong Fund established by the Hawaiʻi Community Foundation. The link can be accessed here. Due to capacity limitations in the system, please consider making financial rather than physical donations.
A: Wildfires have mainly affected Lahaina in West Maui. All non-essential travel to West Maui (including Lahaina, Nāpili, Kā‘anapali, and Kapalua) is strongly discouraged for the duration of Governor Greenʻs sixth emergency proclamation (through October 17, 2023) issued on August 19. Hotels in West Maui have temporarily stopped accepting bookings of future reservations as they are housing their employees and families, evacuees, and first responders.
Other areas on Maui (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island remain unaffected. We urge visitors to be especially mindful and respectful in our island home as our community continues through this tragedy.
A: Beyond West Maui, other areas on the island (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island remain open. Non-essential travel to West Maui (including Lahaina, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, and Kapalua) is strongly discouraged through October 17, 2023. A: While Kahului Airport remains open, it is strongly suggested that travelers check with their airline for any flight changes or cancellations, or for assistance with rebooking.
A: Please call or text 9-1-1 if you are in need of medical assistance. A: Please contact Maui Emergency Management Agency at (808) 270-7285 or [email protected]. Also, visit MauiStrong.hawaii.gov for the latest general information.
NOTE: While multiple dictionary sources propose "Lāhainā" as the old pronunciation for the region, living kūpuna, mānaleo and recordings of mānaleo serve to demonstrate that the contemporary pronunciation is Lahaina. Heeding the call from the Lahaina community, HTA now uses the spelling Lahaina across all platforms.

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — A search of the wildfire devastation on the Hawaiian island of Maui on Thursday revealed a wasteland of obliterated neighborhoods and landmarks charred beyond recognition, as the death toll rose to at least 53 and survivors told harrowing tales of narrow escapes with only the clothes on their backs. A flyover of historic Lahaina showed entire neighborhoods that had been a vibrant vision of color and island life reduced to gray ash. Block after block was nothing but rubble and blackened foundations, including along famous Front Street, where tourists shopped and dined just days ago.
Boats in the harbor were scorched, and smoke hovered over the town, which dates to the 1700s and is the biggest community on the island’s west side. “Lahaina, with a few rare exceptions, has been burned down,” Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told The Associated Press. More than 1,000 structures were destroyed by fires that were still burning, he said. Already the state’s deadliest natural disaster since a 1960 tsunami killed 61 people on the Big Island, the death toll will likely rise further as search and rescue operations continue, Green added.
“We are heartsick,” Green said. Many businesses, including one of the town’s oldest shops, were destroyed.
As owner Tiffany Kidder Winn assessed the damage Wednesday at the Whaler’s Locker gift store, she came upon a line of burned-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside. “It looked like they were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off Front Street,” she said. She later spotted a body leaning against a seawall.
Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fire started Tuesday and took Maui by surprise, racing through parched growth covering the island and then feasting on homes and anything else that lay in its path. The official death toll of 53 as of Thursday makes this the deadliest U.S. wildfire since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and laid waste to the town of Paradise. The Hawaii toll could rise, though, as rescuers reach parts of the island that had been inaccessible due to the three ongoing fires, including the one in Lahaina that was 80% contained on Thursday, according to a Maui County news release. Dozens of people have been injured, some critically.
“We are still in life preservation mode. Search and rescue is still a primary concern,” said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Search and rescue teams still won’t be able to reach certain areas until the fire lines are secure and access is safe, Weintraub added.
The flames left some people with mere minutes to act and led some to flee into the ocean. A Lahaina man, Bosco Bae, posted video on Facebook from Tuesday night that showed fire burning nearly every building on a street as sirens blared and windblown sparks raced by. Bae, who said he was one of the last people to leave the town, was evacuated to the island’s main airport and was waiting to be allowed to return home.
Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022, said that when he heard the fire alarms, it was already too late to flee in his car. Vasquez and his brother Eduardo escaped via roads that were clogged with vehicles full of people. The smoke was so toxic that he vomited. He said he’s not sure his roommates and neighbors made it to safety.
Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso described their harrowing escape under smoke-filled skies. The couple and their 6-year-old son got back to their apartment after a quick dash to the supermarket for water, and only had time to grab a change of clothes and run as the bushes around them caught fire. “We barely made it out,” Kawaakoa, 34, said at an evacuation shelter, still unsure if anything was left of their apartment. As the family fled, they called 911 when they saw the Hale Mahaolu senior living facility across the road erupt in flames.
Communications have been spotty on the island, with 911, landline and cellular service failing at times. Power was also out in parts of Maui. Tourists were advised to stay away, and about 11,000 flew out of Maui on Wednesday with at least 1,500 more expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director.
Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to receive thousands. In coastal Kihei, southeast of Lahaina, wide swaths of ground glowed red with embers Wednesday night as flames continued to chew through trees and buildings.
Gusty winds blew sparks over a black and orange patchwork of charred earth and still-crackling hot spots. The fires were fanned by strong winds from Hurricane Dora passing far to the south. It’s the latest in a series of disasters caused by extreme weather around the globe this summer.
Experts say climate change is increasing the likelihood of such events. Wildfires aren’t unusual in Hawaii, but the weather of the past few weeks created the fuel for a devastating blaze and, once ignited, the high winds created the disaster, said Thomas Smith an associate professor in Environmental Geography at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Hawaii’s Big Island is also currently seeing blazes, Mayor Mitch Roth said, although there were no reports of injuries or destroyed homes there.
With communications hampered, it was difficult for many to check in with friends and family members. Some people were posting messages on social media.
A Family Assistance Center opened at the Kahului Community Center for people looking for the missing. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, said Wednesday night that officials were working to get communications restored, distribute water and possibly add law enforcement personnel. He said National Guard helicopters had dropped 150,000 gallons (568,000 liters) of water on the fires. The Coast Guard said it rescued 14 people who jumped into the water to escape the flames and smoke.
Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said Wednesday that officials hadn’t yet begun investigating the immediate cause of the fires. President Joe Biden declared a major disaster on Maui.
Traveling in Utah on Thursday, he pledged that the federal response will ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately.” Biden promised to streamline requests for assistance and said the Federal Emergency Management Agency was “surging emergency personnel” on the island.
This story has been corrected to state that Louise Abihai is Chelsey Vierra’s great-grandmother, not her grandmother. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here.
The AP is solely responsible for all content. Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu, Rush from Kahului and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writers Nick Perry in Wellington, New Zealand; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; and Chris Megerian in Salt Lake City, Utah, contributed.

Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster exists in the State of Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 8, 2023, and continuing. The President’s action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in Maui County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Federal funding also is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for debris removal and emergency protective measures in Maui County, and assistance for emergency protective measures for Hawaii County. Lastly, Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide. Mr. Maona N. Ngwira of FEMA has been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the affected areas. Damage assessments are continuing, and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed. Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated areas can begin applying for assistance at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), or by using the FEMA App. Anyone using a relay service, such as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, can give FEMA the number for that service.

The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday delivered a devastating blow to Hawaii’s historical and cultural resources.
The area in and around Front Street — designated a National Historic Landmark since 1962 — was leveled by the massive overnight blaze, and so were its historic buildings, landmarks and sites. A spokesperson for Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen wasn’t ready late Wednesday afternoon to list the landmarks that were destroyed by the fire, saying access to the area was still restricted and crews were still actively fighting the fire.
But Tamara Paltin, who represents Lahaina on the Maui County Council, didn’t hold back while delivering food and supplies to West Maui via boat. “Basically everything from Safeway to the Chart House is gone,” she said in a brief phone interview.
>> Waiola Church, established in 1823 by High Chiefess Keopuolani.
>> Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, which was established in 1846 by the Rev. Aubert Bouillon of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and officially dedicated in 1858. >>
Lahaina Jodo Mission, which was established in a private house in 1912 to propagate Buddhism in Lahaina. The temple moved to its present location in 1931.
>> Na Aikana Cultural Center, which occupies a building that once served as a soup kitchen for plantation workers during an ILWU strike against the Pioneer Mill. >> Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland. >>
The Old Lahaina Courthouse, which opened in 1860 as a customs house for whaling and trade ships as well as a center for government offices and court functions during the monarchy period. >> The Baldwin Home Museum, the oldest home on the island, built between 1834 and 1835 for missionaries Dwight Baldwin and Charlotte Fowler Baldwin.
Outside the courthouse was a massive banyan tree, which was more than 150 years old. It was still standing Wednesday but it was heavily charred and a likely victim.
The Emma Farden Sharpe Hula Festival was supposed to be held Saturday under the tree, but the event’s fate is now uncertain. Kumu hula Roselle Bailey of Wailuku said she hopes the event will go forward so that it can help uplift the people of Lahaina.
This was not the first time Lahaina was destroyed by fire. In the early morning of New Year’s Day 1919, fire swept through the town, destroying more than 30 buildings, according to historical accounts, before it was stopped by the townspeople. The devastating fire led to the organization of Maui’s fire department and the implementation of other fire safety measures.
Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning, said the town’s history can be divided into six separate but sometimes overlapping eras: pre-contact, monarchy, missionary, whaling, plantation and tourism. The different eras, she said, brought a different group of people who recognized a community blessed with calm ocean waters and fertile grounds. Each era ended with a slump, she said, but the town always reinvented itself. These eras left a mosaic of history, artifacts and landmarks scattered throughout the town, but now most of them may be lost.
The Lahaina Restoration Foundation was in the middle of several restoration projects, including the just-completed $20,000 repainting of the Baldwin Home Museum, part of a $500,000 effort that was set to get underway soon. “The shingles (for a new roof) are sitting on Oahu right now,” Morrison said.
Foundation workers also were preparing a $500,000 exhibit to be installed at the Old Lahaina Courthouse. The exhibit was going to describe Moku‘ula, the 1837-1847 home of King Kamehameha III that was rediscovered under a baseball field at Lahaina’s Malu‘ulu o Lele Park.
With the fire, however, the projects are in limbo. “This is the biggest blow we’ve ever had as a community. It’s beyond comprehending,” she said.
“With the lost homes, jobs, a big chunk of the economy, it’s a game-changer. Kiersten Faulkner, executive director of the Historic Hawai‘i Foundation, called Lahaina’s historic significance vast, crossing many periods of time.
Its buildings reflect its past as the capital of the Hawaiian kingdom, the early days of western contact through whaling and shipping, followed by the influence of the early American missionaries and the sugar plantations. Office of Hawaiian Affairs Chair Carmen “Hulu” Lindsey, who represents Maui on the board of trustees, said OHA is praying for those who lost their homes, property and livelihoods.
OHA, she said in a statement, is assessing community needs and is prepared to help. “As kanaka, there are truly no words to describe the devastation and immeasurable losses in Lahaina, a national historic landmark, historic district, and former capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom,” she said. “Lahaina holds some of the most historically significant cultural properties and highest-ranking sacred remains of our ancestors.

Search-and-rescue operations were underway Wednesday as authorities assessed the extent of the damage.
Many residents were without power, cell signal and accessible roads as of morning local time. Authorities said it was too soon to provide an exact number of those wounded, adding that injuries extended beyond burns, including smoke inhalation, which one firefighter suffered.
Officials signed an emergency proclamation on Wednesday and discouraged tourists from traveling to Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity — Luke said. Authorities are working with the main airlines, issuing waivers and lowering fares so trapped visitors can evacuate as soon as possible. A convention center on Oahu is prepared to shelter as many as 4,000 tourists, officials said.
The blazes destroyed much of the popular tourist town of Lahaina on the island of Maui, said Richard Bissen, mayor of Maui County. The fires caused mass evacuations and decimated buildings throughout the island. Shelters are overrun, power is out for more than 2,000 residents, and access to the west side of the island is hampered by mass road closures. The extent of structural damage, and the impact on businesses, remains unclear as officials prioritize search-and-rescue efforts, but authorities anticipate the damage to be extensive.
Mitch Roth, mayor of Hawaii County, said fires on the Big Island are contained for the most part, adding that he was “still hesitant to say we have it completely under control.” Firefighters continued Wednesday to combat active fires.
Hawaii Gov. Josh Green (D), who had been out of state on personal travel, said Wednesday that he was returning to Hawaii “immediately.” On Tuesday, Luke, who is serving as acting governor, declared an emergency relief period through at least Aug. 15 and activated the Hawaii National Guard to help with the disaster. The fires have destroyed hundreds of acres in regions including Kula, North Kohala and South Kohala.
“Local people have lost everything. They’ve lost their house, they’ve lost their animals.
It’s devastating,” said James Tokioka, director of Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. President Biden said in a statement Wednesday that the Coast Guard and Navy Third Fleet are supporting response and rescue efforts.
Months of drought primed the islands for fire risks, with more than a third of Maui County under at least moderate drought as of Aug. 1, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Abnormally dry conditions developed rapidly there in June and have persisted, with slightly below-normal precipitation during what is a typically dry time of year. Weather patterns have allowed fires to spread quickly.
A strong high-pressure system north of the islands is keeping conditions dry and sunny, and tradewinds have intensified as Category 4 Dora passes hundreds of miles to the south. The difference between that high pressure zone and Dora’s low pressure has fueled damaging winds, the National Weather Service said.
Winds that had surged above 60 mph Tuesday were slackening Wednesday, said Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu. They were forecast to be calm enough for the Weather Service to discontinue “red flag” fire weather warnings by Thursday, he said. But even under normal weather patterns, he added, winds are expected to gust up to 40 mph.
“The winds aren’t going to drop off, but we’ll be out of those critical fire weather parameters,” Morrison said. Beyond that — absent another tropical system — no significant rain is expected to ease drought conditions until the wet season begins in the fall. Areas of severe drought, now covering about 5 percent of Maui County and 1 percent of the entire state, are likely to expand, Morrison said.
Because Hawaii communities and ecosystems have not faced significant wildfire threats in the past, preparations to prevent fires and limit their impact is lagging, said Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization. That includes work to harden homes so they’re more resistant to embers catching fire and to manage plant growth that fuels fires.
“It’s just kind of a nightmare recipe,” Pickett said. Unlike in the western United States, Hawaii’s forests are not adapted to coexisting with wildfire, Pickett said, so forests that are burned typically don’t grow back.
Eventual rains can also wash debris into the oceans, smothering corals and ruining water quality. A similar outbreak of fires occurred in 2018, when Hurricane Lane struck the islands, dumping some 17 inches of rainfall on the Big Island and causing landslides — but also fanning fires on Maui and Oahu that burned about 3,000 acres, destroyed 21 structures and required a hurricane shelter to be relocated. Videos shared to social media Wednesday showed flames engulfing the streets of Lahaina, which has about 13,000 residents.
The U.S. Coast Guard rescued 12 people who had fled into the ocean to avoid smoke and flames. Firefighters responding to the blazes faced strong winds, which prevented helicopters from dumping water onto the fires and gathering more information about the blazes, officials said. Several schools in Maui closed amid the strong winds, with officials citing “unsafe campus conditions and damage” caused by the brush fires and weather. The state’s Education Department said Wednesday that Maui High School would be used as an evacuation shelter.

Editors’ Note: Please bookmark this page.
This breaking news story will be updated as soon as more information becomes available. 9:15 p.m.
The death toll from the Lahaina fire is now 55, Maui County reported this evening. As of Wednesday evening there were 36 fatalities. The county reported 19 additional fatalties today. Starting Friday, radio stations on Maui will air Maui County updates on the Lahaina fire at 9 a.m., noon and 3 p.m. Radio updates will supplement information posted on the county’s website, Facebook and Instagram pages, the county said in a news release this evening.
6 p.m. Four public school campuses in Lahaina will remain closed through next week Friday, according to a news release from the Hawaii Department of Education. Lahainaluna High, Lahaina Intermediate, Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary and King Kamehameha III Elementary schools will be closed until Aug. 18.
“While the Department is working to solidify next steps for what school operations will look like for West Maui, we are also making sure all students, staff and families are accounted for. The extended closures are also aimed at allowing students, families and staff to care for themselves and loved ones and start to reestablish their bearings during this stressful and devastating time,” according to a statement.
Officials said damage assessments are underway at the four campuses, but King Kamehameha III Elementary on Front Street was confirmed to have severe fire and structural damage. Reopening plans for all other Maui public schools will be determined Friday. “Schools in Upcountry, South and Central Maui will have phased reopening plans to first bring back staff, followed by students. This will give school teams time to assess damage and capacity to welcome students back safely,” officials said in a statement.
5 p.m. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier today asked for residents’ patience in re-entering devastated Lahaina so that authorities could respectfully search for and remove even more fatalities. Asked about specifics on which parts of Lahaina were spared, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen, Jr. said “all of it” was gone.
Pressed by reporters for exact streets, along with the current number of fatalities, Pelletier later returned to the podium in the Maui County building and insisted that the current number remains at 53. 2:55 p.m. Gov. Josh Green issued a fourth emergency proclamation related to the wildfires whipped through Maui and Hawaii island this week, killing at least 53 people and destroying and estimated 1,700 buildings on the Valley Isle. >> The Honolulu Fire Department said it will deploy 40 personnel to Maui to aid ongoing operations, including firefighters, incident management team members, and search-and-rescue specialists. >>
And the FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell is scheduled to travel to Hawaii to meet with state and local officials regarding ongoing response and recovery efforts, the federal agency announced. 1:15 p.m. Maui County officials raised the confirmed fatality count from Tuesday’s out-of-control wildfires to 53, an increase of 17 from Wednesday, and Gov. Josh Green expects that number to keep climbing. The county provided no other details but Green told CNN earlier that the death toll will go up “very significantly” from the Wednesday estimate of 36 as search-and-rescue crews reach areas that were previously inaccessible.
Speaking via phone as he viewed the devastation on Front Street in Lahaina just after noon, Green said he expects the death toll to eventually “significantly exceed” the 61 deaths from the 1960 tsunami that struck the islands. Green also said the estimate of buildings destroyed on Maui is “upwards of 1,700,” sharply higher than the initial estimate Wednesday of 271.
He said that about 11,000 people in West Maui were still without power. He described what he was seeing in Lahaina as “total devastation,” estimating that about 80% of the town was destroyed, with hundreds of families displaced. He added that the damage to property will be in the “billions of dollars,” he said.
Green thanked President Joe Biden for swiftly approving the state’s request for a disaster declaration today, and that he expects federal aid to start flowing into the state in days. And he praised the on-the-ground assistance already being provided by FEMA on Maui. The governor, Sen. Brian Schatz, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen are planning a 3:30 p.m. news conference, which will be livestreamed on Facebook and on staradvertiser.com, to provide updates on the disaster and recovery efforts.
11:30 a.m. Maui County officials reported that the Lahaina wildfire is 80% contained this morning. In Lahaina, firefighting crews were able to further secure the perimeter of areas that burned. But entry into Lahaina remains restricted, according to the Maui Police Department, as dedicated teams, including Maui Search and Rescue, work in the area, and due to biohazard and safety concerns.
County workers are also clearing roads and other areas of trees and debris. Authorities are stopping Lahaina-bound vehicles on Honoapiilani Highway at Maalaea. The highway is open for traffic leaving West Maui. Motorists can also leave West Maui through Waihee, officials said.
Only Kahakuloa residents may access the village through Waihee. Also, Lahaina remains without power.
The Pulehu fire mauka of Kihei is reported to be 70% contained this morning, according to officials, after heavy equipment was used to create firebreaks through the night. Firefighters continue to secure the perimeter for that fire this morning.
No containment percentage for the Upcountry fire is yet available, pending further assessment this morning. Firefighting efforts focused on two main areas of Olinda and Upper Kula, where crews continue to protect structures and extinguish smoldering hot spots. 9:45 a.m.
State senators representing Maui have organized a two-day donation drive at Hawaii state Capitol starting today in response to the ongoing wildfire disasters, according to a Senate news release. State Sens. Angus McKelvey, Gilbert Keith-Agaran and Lynn DeCoite have organized the “Maui Fire Relief Donation Drop-Off” between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today and Friday.
Donations can either be dropped off near the Father Damien statue in front of the Capitol or at the Capitol parking lot off Miller Street. The drive is accepting toiletries, diapers, formula, toys, clothing, bedding, household goods and non-perishable food.
Bottled water donations are discouraged. 7:30 a.m.
President Joe Biden today approved a presidential disaster declaration for Hawaii that will bring “significant relief” to communities on Maui and the Big Island affected by this week’s wildfires. Biden spoke by phone today with Gov Josh Green, who returned to the islands overnight after coming back early from a personal trip.
The president “expressed his deep condolences for the lives lost and vast destruction of land and property,” the White House said in a statement this morning. Biden confirmed he signed a “Major Disaster Declaration” for Hawaii that will deliver additional federal resources and support on top of the actions already underway by FEMA, the National Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other federal agencies, the statement said.
Green’s office said the declaration makes federal funding available to affected individuals on Maui, including grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, as well as other programs to help individuals and business owners recover. Federal funding also will be available to state and eligible county governments, and certain private, nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis, for debris removal and emergency protective measures in Maui County, the governor’s office said. Assistance for emergency protective measures for Hawaii County also will be available.
“In the coming days — as more and more details emerge — I ask that we as a state provide all the emotional and financial support we can to the people of Lahaina and Maui,” the governor said in a statement. Green, who will visit Maui today to survey the damage, ordered that the U.S and state flags be flown at half-staff at the State Capitol, all state offices and agencies, and Hawaii National Guard facilities, effective immediately, to mourn those killed in the Maui fires.
There have been 36 confirmed deaths from the fires that exploded across Maui on Tuesday, and officials fear the toll will grow as search-and-rescue efforts continue. The Associated Press said the death toll makes the Valley Isle wildfires the deadliest U.S. blaze since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and destroyed the town of Paradise. Joint federal, state and county search-and-rescue efforts resume today on Maui as the island’s residents try to recover from the massive, fast-moving wildfires Tuesday that killed at least 36 people, destroyed the historic town of Lahaina and left large swaths of the Valley Isle looking like a war zone.
County officials this morning will resume evacuating hundreds of visitors off the island so they can focus on helping residents recover. They plan to continue mass bus evacuations from West Maui for residents and visitors in West Maui, starting at 8:30 am. with boarding at Whalers Village entryway fronting Kaaanapali Parkway.
Visitors will be taken directly to the Kahului Airport, and residents will be able to go to shelters. The county opened two additional emergency evacuation shelters Wednesday night, at King’s Cathedral Maui at 777 Maui Veteran’s Highway in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items, and pet owners need to have pets properly restrained.
Late Wednesday night, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr.’s office said the death toll from the fires was now 36, up from the six reported earlier in the day. In addition, dozens more suffered burn, smoke-inhalation and other injuries, including several who were transported to Oahu hospitals.
In addition to the casualties, flyovers on Wednesday revealed much of the destruction, including a preliminary estimate that 271 homes and structures have been destroyed or heavily damaged. In historic Lahaina town, those structures include most of Front Street, the 200-year-old Waiola Church, Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, the Pioneer Inn, thee Old Lahaina Courthouse, and the Baldwin Home Museum. The town’s iconic banyan tree was still standing but also severely damaged.
Tourists were advised to evacuate, and about 11,000 visitors flew out of Maui Wednesday, with at least another 1,500 expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director. Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center to take in the thousands who have been displaced. As of Wednesday night, a few dozen evacuees were the first arrivals at the Honolulu center. As winds eased somewhat on Maui on Wednesday, pilots were able to view the full scope of the devastation.
Aerial video from Lahaina showed dozens of homes and businesses razed, including on Front Street, where tourists once gathered to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees.
About 14,500 customers in Maui were without power early Wednesday. With cell service and phone lines down in some areas, many people were struggling to check in with friends and family members living near the wildfires.
All public schools, except Hana High & Elementary, are closed through Friday. In addition to the two new shelters, other open shelters are the Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center, the Maui High School Gym, and the War Memorial Gym, which is also a donation site.
Anyone wishing to donate can bring non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets to War Memorial. Those wishing to donate should enter the complex through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left. The dropoff center will be open today from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
The public can also make monetary donations to the Maui Strong Fund at Hawai‘i Community Foundation at hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/maui-strong. Checks also can be mailed to the Maui Strong fund. Checks should be written to “Hawai‘i Community Foundation,” with “Maui Strong Fund” in the memo section. Mail to: Hawai‘i Community Foundation, 827 Fort Street Mall, Honolulu, HI 96813.
>> Aloha United Way: AUW said its 211 information and referral line is working closely with Maui and Hawaii island organizations to provide updates and information, and to answer questions when possible. The service is available statewide and can also be accessed via email or chat.
John L. Fink, president and CEO of Aloha United Way, said the group’s homepage, auw.org, lists a donation site for the Maui Fire Relief Fund and will send the money to Maui United Way, which will handle distribution over the coming months. >> Hawaii Emergency Management Agency:
The agency is accepting donations and volunteer support, state Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara said during a state and county news conference Wednesday. Hara, who is overall incident commander for the wildfires, recommended that people who want to help go to ready.hawaii.gov or call 808-733-4300. >>
Maui County: People on Maui who want to donate or volunteer can call 808-270-7285. Names and contacts are being compiled so that resources can be deployed over time. >> American Red Cross of Hawaii: Money and volunteers are needed at red cross.org/hawaii, said Matthew Wells, regional communications director.

An emergency proclamation was extended for all Hawaii counties on Wednesday.
Hawaii residents recounted fleeing from deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor. The wildfires are spreading rapidly in very dry conditions combined with powerful trade winds being squeezed across Hawaii. The winds are being caused by a strong high pressure system to the north and a strong low pressure system -- Hurricane Dora -- well to the south.
Scott said they had winds "like we've never had before." He said he tried to fight the fire with a hose before managing to flee.
Maui resident Malika Dudley described to ABC News Live on Wednesday her experience evacuating from the raging wildfires with her two children in the middle of the night. Eventually, they got a call from their neighbor and the fire was right above their property. Currently in Haliimaile, which is on the slopes of Haleakalā, Dudley can still see the fire from the mountain growing and spreading.
Scott said the loss is "horrible," especially along Front Street in downtown Lahaina, just as the tourist-driven area started to rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic. "I don't know if we can recover from this," he said.
The emergency proclamation was issued for Hawaii's Maui and Hawaii counties on Tuesday by acting Gov. Sylvia Luke. On Wednesday, the emergency proclamation was extended to all counties and non-essential air travel to Maui is now being discouraged.
All affected state agencies have also been ordered to assist with the evacuation. The proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart the island as soon as safe and practicable.
In addition to Hawaii's National Guard being activated to assist with the fires on Maui and the Big Island, the U.S. Army's 25th Infantry Division will be sending helicopters to help with fire suppression if the winds die down enough, according to Jeff Hickman, a spokesman for Hawaii's Department of Defense. The National Weather Service has issued a red flag warning for the leeward portions of all Hawaiian Islands.
As of Tuesday night, six fires have burned over 1,800 acres across Maui and the Big Island. Officials said the situation on Maui is very dynamic and fast-moving. Evacuations were in place Tuesday near two fires burning near Maui -- the Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires, county officials said.
The U.S. Coast Guard and other agencies are also responding. The Coast Guard's Hawaii Pacific patrol said they successfully rescued 12 people from the waters off Lahaina. The individuals are believed to have jumped into the water to escape the flames, according to the state's EMA.
There has been no formal closure of Kahului Airport, the main airport on Maui, but there have been disruptions from the smoke. Travelers should check with their airlines for their flight status, according to the EMA.
About 1,800 people sheltered at Kahului Airport overnight, according to the Hawaii Department of Transportation. The Hawaii DOT has also urged visitors to leave Maui if possible and not travel to the island. The warnings have caused panic on flights headed to the island. An Alaska Airlines flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Maui has been delayed for hours and twice allowed passengers off the plane after being told about the conditions on the island.
Employees at the Nakamura Mortuary in Wailuku, are no stranger to dealing with death -- but usually, it's other people's losses. Now, loss has hit home in an unimaginably painful way. One employee told ABC News she's still in shock and can’t reach family members in Lahaina.
"We're still trying to gather ourselves. It's still very fresh.
There's still a lot to be done," she told ABC News over the phone. Since the Maui wildfires, the calls she says she's received aren't to make funeral arrangements for those lost -- it's people calling to see if she has information on their missing loved ones.
She doesn't. "I don't know how to explain it, we want to do so much, but you can't because you're stuck. This has never happened," she said.
Even as the death toll continues to rise, the employee said she's still coming to terms with what has happened. She says she has relatives who lost their homes -- and family members are still missing, both elderly and teenaged.
They were last in Lahaina, and haven't been heard from in 48 hours, she said. "I am hoping they will be found but it's in the back of my mind, I just don't want to get that call," she said.
The not knowing is hard, too. Alani Wun is a funeral arranger at Norman's Mortuary.
She's lived in Maui all her life. Wun says she thinks it's too early for any calls about arrangements for wildfire deaths -- that process will take time, she said.
She says Norman's is "prepared and ready to help" their community when the time comes. "I am part of the ohana of Lahaina," Wun said. ABC News' Luis Martinez, Will Carr, Timmy Truong and Marilyn Heck contributed to this report.

President Joe Biden issued a federal disaster declaration following “devastating” Hawaii wildfires across several parts of the Big Island and Maui and promised to send whatever is needed to help the recovery.
The fires have killed at least 36 people and devastated Lahaina, a town on the island of Maui. Speaking at an unrelated event in Utah on Thursday, Biden said the federal government is moving fast in its response. “We’re working as quickly as possible to fight those fires and evacuate residents and tourists.
In the meantime, our prayers are with the people of Hawaii, but not just our prayers: every asset that we have will be available to them,” Biden said as he began remarks at a Veterans Affairs medical center in Salt Lake City, Utah. Assistance from the declaration can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help with recovery. FEMA, he added, is “gonna help survivors get access to critical assistance,” urging those affected to visit disasterassistance.gov. Biden also noted that he held a “long conversation” by phone with Gov. Josh Green Thursday morning.
“Let him know I’m going to make sure the state has everything it needs from the federal government to recover,” Biden said of the call. Green told CNN’s
Wolf Blitzer on “The Situation Room” Thursday that Biden’s declaration has made “a difference in our spirit already,” noting that president approved the state’s request within six hours. Earlier Thursday, the White House said the administration is “working very closely with Hawaii” as the state struggles with devastating wildfires that have left dozens of people dead. A White House official told CNN that Hawaii has asked for shelter supplies from Federal Emergency Management Agency, including water, food, cots and blankets. FEMA Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton and his team are in Oahu, and he has mobilized an Incident Management Assistance Team to help with the federal response, the official added.

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that 53 people were killed in the devastating Maui wildfires, and the death toll will likely continue to rise. Search and rescue operations were continuing, Green said, and officials expect it will become the state’s deadliest natural disaster since a 1961 tsunami killed 61 people on the Big Island.
More than 1,000 structures were destroyed by fires that are still burning in Lahaina and surrounding areas. “Lahaina, with a few rare exceptions, has been burned down,” the governor told The Associated Press. A flyover of historic Lahaina showed entire neighborhoods that had been a vibrant vision of color and island life reduced to gray ash. Block after block was nothing but rubble and blackened foundations, including along famous Front Street, where tourists shopped and dined just days ago. Boats in the harbor were scorched, and smoke hovered over the town, which dates to the 1700s and is the biggest community on the island’s west side. Tiffany Kidder Winn’s gift store Whaler’s Locker, which is one of the town’s oldest shops, was among the many businesses destroyed.
As she assessed the damage Thursday, she came upon a line of burned-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside them. “It looked like they were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off Front Street,” she said. She later spotted a body leaning against a seawall.
Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fire started Tuesday and took Maui by surprise, racing through parched growth covering the island and then feasting on homes and anything else that lay in its path. The official death toll stood at 36 late Wednesday, making it the deadliest U.S. wildfire since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and laid waste to the town of Paradise. The Hawaii toll could rise, though, as rescuers reach parts of the island that had been inaccessible due to the three ongoing fires, including the one in Lahaina that was 80% contained on Thursday, according to a Maui County news release. More than 270 structures have been damaged or destroyed, and dozens of people have been injured, including some critically. “We are still in life preservation mode.
Search and rescue is still a primary concern,” said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Search and rescue teams still won’t be able to access certain areas until the fire lines are secure and they’re sure they’ll be able to get to those areas safely, Weintraub added. The flames left some people with mere minutes to act and led some to flee into the ocean. A Lahaina man, Bosco Bae, posted video on Facebook from Tuesday night that showed fire burning nearly every building on a street as sirens blared and windblown sparks raced by. Bae, who said he was one of the last people to leave the town, was evacuated to the island’s main airport and was waiting to be allowed to return home.
Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022, said that when he heard the fire alarms, it was already too late to flee in his car. Vasquez and his brother Eduardo escaped via roads that were clogged with vehicles full of people. The smoke was so toxic that he vomited. He said he’s not sure his roommates and neighbors made it to safety.
Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso described their harrowing escape under smoke-filled skies. The couple and their 6-year-old son got back to their apartment after a quick dash to the supermarket for water, and only had time to grab a change of clothes and run as the bushes around them caught fire. “We barely made it out,” Kawaakoa, 34, said at an evacuation shelter, still unsure if anything was left of their apartment.
As the family fled, they called 911 when they saw the Hale Mahaolu senior living facility across the road erupt in flames. Communications have been spotty on the island, with 911, landline and cellular service failing at times.
Power was also out in parts of Maui. Tourists were advised to stay away, and about 11,000 flew out of Maui on Wednesday with at least 1,500 more expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director. Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in the thousands who have been displaced.
In coastal Kihei, southeast of Lahaina, wide swaths of ground glowed red with embers Wednesday night as flames continued to chew through trees and buildings. Gusty winds blew sparks over a black and orange patchwork of charred earth and still-crackling hot spots. The fires were fanned by strong winds from Hurricane Dora passing far to the south. It’s the latest in a series of disasters caused by extreme weather around the globe this summer.
Experts say climate change is increasing the likelihood of such events. Wildfires aren’t unusual in Hawaii, but the weather of the past few weeks created the fuel for a devastating blaze and, once ignited, the high winds created the disaster, said Thomas Smith an associate professor in Environmental Geography at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Hawaii’s Big Island is also currently seeing blazes, Mayor Mitch Roth said, although there were no reports of injuries or destroyed homes there.
With communications hampered, it was difficult for many to check in with friends and family members. Some people were posting messages on social media.
Maui officials opened a Family Assistance Center at the Kahului Community Center for people looking for the missing. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, told reporters Wednesday night that officials were working to get communications restored, distribute water and possibly add law enforcement personnel. He said National Guard helicopters had dropped 150,000 gallons (568,000 liters) of water on the fires.
The Coast Guard said it rescued 14 people who jumped into the water to escape the flames and smoke. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said Wednesday that officials hadn’t yet begun investigating the immediate cause of the fires.
President Joe Biden declared a major disaster on Maui. Traveling in Utah on Thursday, he pledged that the federal response will ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately.” Biden promised to streamline requests for assistance and said the Federal Emergency Management Agency was “surging emergency personnel” on the island.
Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writers Claire Rush in Kahului, Hawaii; Nick Perry in Wellington, New Zealand; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; and Chris Megerian in Salt Lake City, Utah, contributed.

Rescue teams, including members of the Hawaii National Guard, are continuing to search for victims, and officials warned that the death toll was likely to rise. It jumped from 36 to 53 on Thursday.
The fires forced large-scale evacuations, displaced hundreds of families and left a swath of the island without power or cellphone service. As people frantically searched for missing relatives, evacuation centers posted handwritten lists of those who had made it to safety. It will take billions of dollars to rebuild everything that the blazes erased, Green said.
Griffin Gibson, a college student, grew up in Lahaina and watched from a nearby hillside as the fire swept through his hometown. On Wednesday evening, he biked down to the seafront to see what was left. It was a route he had taken thousands of times before, but he had no idea where he was.
Maui County officials said the wildfire that caused widespread damage in Lahaina was 80 percent contained as of Thursday morning local time. A second fire on Maui was 70 percent contained, officials added, while the status of a third fire was pending further assessment. “None of the fires are 100 percent contained right now,” Maui County fire chief Bradford Ventura said.
Areas with active fires are “very hazardous,” he said, adding that people had been injured by falling debris. Authorities do not know how many people remained missing as of Thursday afternoon local time, Ventura said.
“And here’s the challenge: There’s no power. There’s no internet. There’s no radio coverage,” he said. It may take weeks or months for power to return in some areas, according to Green.
Maui is a destination spot for tourism, but officials are telling visitors not to come as they grapple with an untold disaster whose full extent remains unknown. On Thursday, President Biden spoke by phone with Green and approved a disaster declaration for the destruction, opening a path for federal aid to reach the state.
Biden said the Federal Emergency Management Agency is sending disaster assistance personnel. The president also said he had ordered “all available federal assets” on the island, including the Coast Guard, the Navy and the Army, to assist local emergency response crews.
While wildfires take place every year on the Hawaiian islands, this week’s inferno was uncommon in its ferocity. At least 1,700 structures were destroyed, Green told CNN, while nearly 11,000 people are still without power in Maui, according to PowerOutage.us.
Months of drought set the stage for the fires by drying out vegetation, which has become more flammable in recent decades because of the spread of nonnative grasses. But it was the advent of unusually powerful winds that caused the fires to spread out of control so quickly. Gusts as high as 67 mph were reported in Maui County.
As the fast-moving fires tore through dry grasslands, many of those who evacuated their homes on Maui said they felt lucky to survive. John Holwick, a high school student, said a massive windstorm began kicking up dust Tuesday around the house he shares with his grandparents and aunt in a forested part of Kula in Maui’s Upcountry region.
Soon power lines were falling and cell service vanished. A tree careened onto the deck, clipping the corner of the house. Then the smoke came.
The family crammed into a pickup truck and fled. Holwick is sheltering in a house in Kahului packed with 10 other evacuees. His family’s home is still standing, but just 200 feet away all that is left of neighboring properties are charred frames and chimneys.
Gibson, the college student, watched with horror Tuesday night as the fire swept into Lahaina. From his perch on a hill, he saw a series of explosions — a diesel tank in the harbor, a gas station, a massive propane tank.
One sent a plume of smoke 1,000 feet high, he estimated. “We literally watched our town explode into the air,” he said.
Ryan Kirkham is the principal of Maui Preparatory Academy, about six miles north of downtown Lahaina. He was at home on Tuesday night when a police officer showed up at his door and said they were turning Kirkham’s school into a shelter, since the designated one in Lahaina needed to be evacuated.
Kirkham raced to the school, which had no power, and began opening classrooms. Overnight they housed about 500 people, he estimated.
Many had lost their homes. Some were covered in soot and looked as if they had barely escaped.
Gibson also helped out at the school. He spoke with two men who had jumped into the ocean to escape the fire and watched as buildings in Lahaina were consumed by flames. The streets were clogged with cars abandoned as people tried to escape, and as the cars began exploding in the fires, the men said it became difficult to breathe.
They spent four hours in the water before being rescued by the Coast Guard. The images from Lahaina revealed a post-apocalyptic landscape of blackened structures and burned vehicles.
Among the buildings destroyed by the fire were a historic inn built in 1911 and Waiola Church, Maui’s first Christian congregation that celebrated its 200th anniversary three months ago. Waiola served as the church for Hawaii’s royal family when Lahaina was the capital of the kingdom, according to its website.
A 150-year-old banyan tree in Lahaina — believed by conservation experts to be the largest tree of its kind in the United States — was also in the direct path of the fires. Images showed that the tree was still standing but severely burned. Along Front Street — once known as the “jewel in the crown of Maui” for its beautiful views and historic buildings — there was only wreckage.
That included the magic show venue founded by Gibson’s father, Warren, 24 years ago. Now it is only charred beams and rubble.
At the terminal of the Kahului Airport on Thursday morning, the Pagniano family was camped out on a blanket, the final leg of an unexpected and harrowing holiday. The family of four from California had been staying in a Lahaina condo this week, enjoying one of their favorite places in the world.
But within 48 hours, their vacation had become a nightmare. The family left their condo on Tuesday, well before the flames arrived, seeking some relief from the wind and power outage. They spent a night fighting traffic and trying to sleep in a Walmart parking lot, hoping they could make it back to their rental condo and belongings in Lahaina.
Then they realized the magnitude of the disaster. As residents and visitors rushed to escape the impact of the wildfires, some airlines are adding more flights, swapping in bigger planes or making other changes to help accommodate evacuees.
Several carriers are also offering travel waivers and eliminating fees for travelers whose plans are changing. Hawaii officials have asked visitors and residents to refrain from nonessential air travel to Maui.
The state’s tourism authority asked those with bookings for the area “to consider rescheduling their travel plans for another time,” it said in a statement. “Please allow us to complete this process before we allow people back into their homes,” said Bissen, Maui’s mayor.
However, they also stressed that the rest of the state is open for business. James Tokioka, director of Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, suggested that vacationers change their reservations to other parts of the state.
Sitting on his cot and hugging a donated blanket at an evacuation center in Wailuku, Phil Bailey described surviving a wall of flames sweeping toward a pier in Lahaina. The night security worker on the pier, Bailey said he tried to save four boats before one caught fire and he ended up in the water.

A number of significant historical sites in Maui's tourist hub of Lahaina have been destroyed by fires, according to a CNN analysis of Maxar Technologies satellite imagery. Several buildings along Lahaina's historic Front Street have been impacted, according to the satellite imagery, which was taken at 11:03 a.m. local time Wednesday.
Among the losses is a towering banyan tree -- one of the largest in the US -- which was imported to the island from India in 1873, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. There appears to be no vegetation on the tree when compared to earlier images. The Lahaina Heritage Museum, housed in a courthouse just west of the tree, has been burned so badly that the roof has collapsed and only its walls remain, the images show.
The Baldwin Home Museum -- an 1830s-era house believed to be the oldest home on the island -- has been reduced to ash. Lahaina Restoration Foundation executive director Theo Morrison confirmed to CNN earlier Wednesday that the house had been burnt.
Further north, the Wo Hing Temple Museum has also been destroyed. The two-story structure was built in 1912 to be a temple and social hall for the island's Chinese immigrant community.

The blazes that have devastated Maui and the Big Island in Hawaii already constitute the state’s worst natural disaster since 1960 – as at least 111 people are confirmed dead, thousands of residents and tourists have been forced to evacuate and the picturesque and historic beach resort of Lahaina has been destroyed.
What’s more, the tragedy also already represents America’s second-deadliest wildfire outbreak of the last 100 years, with only the Camp Fire that struck California in 2018 surpassing the current Hawaiian death toll, which is still rising and could yet surpass it. That brush fire five years ago killed 88 people and did $20.2bn-worth of damage. This time round, it is too early to begin to calculate the cost of the destruction wrought across the Pacific island chain, as firefighters are still battling to bring the conflagration under control in areas like Wahiawa, but the latest crisis could ultimately beat that unwanted record too.
What makes the horror currently unfolding all the more disturbing is that wildfires were regarded as uncommon in Hawaii until relatively recently, with those that did break out usually attributed to eruptions from one of the archipelago’s six active volcanoes or to lightning strikes. “On the other islands with less volcanic activity, fires did occur, but very, very rarely,” Professor David Beilman of the University of Hawaii told USA Today this week.
“This Maui situation is an Anthropocene phenomenon,” he said, referring to the epoch defined by humanity’s influence over the planet. The tropical paradise, situated 2,000 miles west of the US mainland, has only really begun to experience the consequences of that influence in recent decades. The last time Hawaii suffered a major burst of wildfires was in August 2018, when 70mph gusts of wind driven by Hurricane Lane shepherded flames towards Lahaina, the same town ravaged this month.
In that incident, 2,000 acres of land, 30 vehicles and 21 structures were ruined, according to local newspaper The Honolulu Star-Advertiser, with the fire racing across fields once dedicated to growing sugar cane but unharvested since 1999. One local man told the paper at the time that he had seen “tornadoes of fire whirling up to the sky”.
“I’ve never seen something so devastating,” he added, aghast at the recollection. Before the 2018 wildfires, Hawaii was more commonly impacted by tsunamis hitting the islands.
In fact, the worst natural disaster in its history was the tsunami that struck on 1 April 1946. Caused by an 8.4-magnitude earthquake off Alaska, the tsunami killed 165 people, wiping out the Hilo Bay waterfront on the Big Island and prompting the establishment of the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in the state soon after.
More tsunamis followed in November 1952, August 1960 and March 1964. The 35-foot wave of 1960 was particularly rough, crashing down again on Hilo Bay, killing 61, damaging more than 500 homes and businesses and doing $75m of damage.
Now, fires are becoming both more frequent and more extreme. The HWMO reports that 98 per cent of those fires are instigated by humans, which compares unfavourably with the US Forest Service’s 85 per cent estimate for the nation as a whole.
While the carelessness of man is one factor behind the exacerbation, global warming is the other. Climate change has increasingly been blamed for the erratic weather patterns the world has seen in recent years and this summer has provided further alarming illustrations of its adverse impact: western Canada and southern Europe have been devastated by spontaneous fires this year while the UK, by contrast, has been subjected to an uncannily rainy July and August. In the case of the current Hawaii fires, 60mph winds from Hurricane Dora, lying hundreds of miles southwest of Honolulu, and a low pressure system sitting off western Japan are thought to have conspired to fan the flames and send them raging across Maui.
Another important factor in the state’s growing vulnerability of late has been its abundance of unmanaged dry vegetation providing the ideal fuel, much of which is accounted for by invasive species like Guinea grass that are non-native to Hawaii but have colonised areas of former farmland and forest. “These savannas now cover about a million acres across the main Hawaiian Islands, mostly the legacy of land clearing for plantation agriculture and ranching in the late 1800s/early 1900s,” Professor Clay Trauernicht, also of the University of Hawaii, explained on X, formerly Twitter.
“The transformation to savanna makes the landscape way more sensitive to bad ‘fire weather’ – hot, dry, windy conditions. It also means we get huge buildups of fuels during rainy periods. Professor Trauernicht warned that this “benign neglect” has placed too great a burden on emergency responders to tackle the inevitable consequences, emphasising that prudent investment in “fuel reduction projects, agricultural land use, restoration and reforestation” could do a great deal to avert further tragedy.

Despite reports to the contrary, historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church is still standing amid the ashes and devastation left by the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week. The Rev. Terrence Watanabe, vicar of Maui and Lanai, said the evidence of the building’s survival is found in photographs taken after the fire showing the sanctuary and the neighboring rectory intact.
Not so fortunate is Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May. Waiola, on Wainee Street and formerly known as Waine‘e Church, was razed. Waiola is the site of a historic mission established in 1823.
The graveyard next door is the final resting place for early members of the royal family of the Kingdom of Hawaii, including the church’s founder, Queen Keopuolani. Originally named Ebenezer Church and built in 1832, it became known as Waine‘e Church (which means “moving water”) until 1953, when it was renamed Waiola (living water).
The structure that burned to the ground Wednesday was built in 1953. Waiola Church has been damaged by wind and fires on several occasions over the years and has always rebuilt. Rosa said she’s confident the same thing will happen again.
Waiola was one of hundreds of buildings destroyed by a fire in Lahaina Town. One of the buildings that appears to have largely escaped the flames was Maria Lanikila Catholic Church, which was established in 1846 by the Rev. Aubert Bouillon of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and officially dedicated in 1858.
Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku, said that while the historic church is still standing, it’s hard to say how much damage the building actually took. Photos indicate that the Maria Lanakila sanctuary’s wooden roof sustained some damage but there’s no indication of what the inside looks like.
The roof blew off neighboring Sacred Hearts School, so damage is likely to be extensive there. While he’s heartened by the photos showing minimal damage to the church, Watanabe also acknowledged that it is possible that an engineer could inspect the building, determine that it unsafe and recommend that it be knocked down. “We won’t know until we get in there and make an assessment,” he said.
Authorities still weren’t allowing the public to enter the Lahaina region Thursday as fire crews continued to battle a fire that was at least 80% contained and as personnel were still recovering bodies. The Rev. Kuriakose Nadooparambil, pastor of Maria Lanakila, and his staff all escaped the fire and found places to stay with members of the Catholic community in Central Maui, although one staffer waited to evacuate until it was almost too late.
“He didn’t leave until the palm trees outside were on fire, and there was fire on both sides of the road as he drove away,” he said. Watanabe said he’s met with Hawaii’s Catholic leadership and they are interested in coming to the aid of the church and its congregation of 700 to 800 families. The church serves West Maui from Olowalu to Kapalua.
Watanabe said St. Anthony has been inundated with phone calls from people wanting to know how they can help. He said his staff is directing people to established disaster relief funds and to Catholic Charities. In the meantime, a prayer service for the victims and those displaced by the Lahaina fire will be held Tuesday at 6 p.m. at St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church, 1627 Mill St., in Wailuku.
People of all faiths are welcome to attend. Elsewhere in Lahaina, the restored Wo Hing museum and cookhouse, established in 1910, is gone, said Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation. “We are still not allowed into the town
so I only know from the footage being released,” she said in a text. Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, was also leveled by the fire, but Morrison said buildings like the Baldwin Home Museum and Old Lahaina Courthouse suffered substantial damage but are likely to be salvageable with enough funds thrown their way.
“I do not know the status of the artifacts within the sites however,” she said. The Old Lahaina Courthouse opened in 1860 as a customs house for whaling and trade ships as well as a center for government offices and court functions during the monarchy period. The Baldwin Home Museum, the oldest home on the island, was built between 1834 and 1835 for missionaries Dwight Baldwin and Charlotte Fowler Baldwin.
Dwight Baldwin was the pastor at the Waiola Church’s predecessor while he lived in Lahaina. Both the Baldwin Home and the Old Lahaina Courthouse lost their roofs. At the two-story Baldwin home, the roof caught fire and fell into the upper floor, where the Lahaina Restoration Foundation office was. The upper floor probably fell onto the lower floor too, Morrison said.

MAUI (HawaiiNewsNow) - A brush fire and heavy smoke near Kahului Airport on Friday temporarily suspended landings, but all operations have since returned to normal, the state Department of Transportation said.
The brush fire broke out in an area near Stable Road and Hana Highway around 11 a.m., the Maui Fire Department said. DOT sent out a tweet around 11:20 a.m., informing the public that the Federal Aviation Administration closed landing operations due to the brush fire and smoke. A DOT spokesman said operations were back to normal around noon. Approximately five flights that were headed to Kahului were diverted to Honolulu, the DOT said.
MFD said the fire sparked in very light and dry brush and was fueled by strong winds. Crews worked to contain the blaze, which burned about 30 acres. As of noon, the blaze was about 90% contained.
This story will be updated. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

KAHULUI, Hawaii (KHON2) — The FAA shut down landing operations at Kahului Airport for a short time Friday morning, according to Hawaii DOT.
Flights were reportedly being diverted to Kona or Honolulu due to smoke from a brush fire near Stable Road and Hana Highway. The Maui Fire Department said the fire was in “very dry and light brush” and spread quickly because of strong winds. MFD said the fire is 90% contained, as of 12:15 p.m.

SAN FRANCISCO — A handful of flights to Maui out of San Francisco International Airport were delayed Wednesday due to the devastating wildfires raging across the west side of the island.
While Kahului Airport, the island's main travel hub, remains open, SFO reported that six flights were delayed and one was canceled due to the ongoing state of emergency on Maui. "Unable to say how long impact will go, we recommend travelers headed to Hawaii to sign up for proactive flight notifications from their airline," SFO spokesman Doug Yakel said in an email. The impacted flights include those from Alaska, Hawaiian and United, Yakel said. Neither Oakland International nor San Jose
Mineta International airports reported fire-related impacts Wednesday. The Maui fires broke out Tuesday and were spread quickly by intense winds blowing in from Hurricane Dora, which passed several hundred miles to the south of the archipelago. On Wednesday, Hawaii Gov. Dr. Josh Green said the inferno has devastated much of the historic town of Lahaina, led to widespread power outages, including at hotels and emergency shelters, and forced more than 2,100 people from their homes. Green also said that so far six people have died in the blaze.
Also on Wednesday, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke extended the state's existing emergency proclamation in order to discourage all non-essential air travel to Maui. "This proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so we can prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance," Luke said in a news release.

Top federal officials to meet with state, local leaders in show of unity A trio of top federal officials was traveling to Hawaii to meet with state and local leaders in a show of unity and commitment to aid. The Federal Emergency Management Agency said its own leader, administrator Deanne Criswell, would headline the federal entourage.
On Thursday, FEMA announced it would make money and loans available to qualified victims of wildfires in Maui County. Limited assistance would also be made available to victims in Hawaii County, FEMA said.
Grants could be used for temporary housing and home repairs; low-interest loans can cover uninsured property losses, and programs targeting business owners are intended to help them rebuild and reopen, the administration said. On Thursday, President Joe Biden declared a major disaster for the state.
Also on the trip will be the top leaders of the Small Business Administration and U.S. Fire Administration, Isabella Casillas Guzman and Lori Moore-Merrell, respectively, FEMA said. The administration announced the travel plans Friday but did not say, when, exactly, meetings would take place.
Oprah Winfrey hands out pillows and supplies at Maui shelter Oprah Winfrey, a part-time Maui resident, handed out supplies at a local shelter for wildfire victims Thursday. “It’s a little overwhelming, you know.
But I’m really so pleased to have so many people you know supporting and people just bringing what they can,” she said to the BBC. “I came earlier just to see what people needed, then went shopping because often, you know, you make donations of clothes or whatever it is, it’s not really what people need.
I actually went to Walmart and Costco, and got pillows, shampoo, diapers, sheets, pillowcases,” Winfrey added. Posts on social media showed the media mogul walking around the shelter and handing out pillows to people sleeping on cots. A spokesperson for Oprah told NBC News: “She will do more, as it becomes clear which funds can be the most helpful for the short-term and long-term rebuilding.”
Lauren Sánchez, the fiancée of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos who has property on Maui, shared on Threads on Thursday that the couple will be also donating to help recovery efforts. "The tragedy unfolding in Maui is beyond heartbreaking. Jeff and I have been on the phone with local residents and officials, and will be making donations to help,” she wrote.
Almost 11,000 customers without power in West Maui Nearly 11,000 customers in the worst-affected western Maui remain without power, a live map of outages by electricity provider Hawaiian Electric shows. Earlier Thursday, the company said access continues to be limited to many impacted areas because of safety and emergency response concerns, and power restoration will be prioritized to areas that the crews can safely access. The company also said that it's asking customers in the area to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks. Smoldering ruins of Lahaina as seen from the air Aerial images taken Thursday show destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina along the Pacific Ocean in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui.

Hundreds of displaced Maui residents have taken shelter at the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies. The fires have killed at least 67 people on Maui and left many more displaced.
Many of the residents at the War Memorial Gymnasium came from the historic town of Lahaina and fled with only the clothes on their backs. Some say they have been unable to locate their loved ones.
A grassroots effort to reconnect families has launched in front of the gymnasium, where Post-It notes containing contact information and names are pinned to a board. Inside the shelter, scores of people have camped out on mattresses on the ground.
Kathleen Dukes, 46, was born and raised in Lahaina and said it was surreal to see her community in flames. "I was in a state of shock.
It really looks like a ghost town," Dukes said. Dukes had to leave her elderly mother behind when she fled the fire.
She said was first able to speak to her mother on Friday. The home they share is still standing, though an aunt and sister's home was burnt down, Dukes said.
Lynn Robison, 66, lived in the heart of Lahaina, next to the Wharf Cinema Center. After hearing about the fire, Robison and her friends went to the shoreline near the ocean, in case they needed to jump into the water.
The group spent the night sleeping in a grassy patch next to the beach. Robison returned to her apartment complex to find it burned to the ground.
Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids, told CNN they arrived at the shelter on Thursday after fleeing their home in Lahaina, where she had lived for more than 30 years. Cesar and her family grabbed what they could as they evacuated but were distraught to lose family photographs and mementos from her childhood in the Philippines.
Her daughter returned to the location of the house and sent her pictures showing that it had been razed to the ground. Cesar said the loss is difficult to comprehend.
"I just want to see the evidence. I'm still hoping and praying it's still there," Cesar said.

At least 2,207 structures have been damaged or destroyed by the Lahaina fire in western Maui, according to an updated damage assessment from the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA. An estimated 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential, the update said.
The report also said 2,170 acres had burned in the blaze as of Friday. Maui County shared a graphic on Facebook this morning that listed the estimated cost of rebuilding from the fire at $5.52 billion, citing FEMA and the Pacific Disaster Center as the source. "FEMA has not done any estimates of costs, we are still in active response and initial recovery phases, and it is too early to do so. Once all life saving and life sustaining needs are met, we will begin to assess the damage and formulate preliminary estimates," the statement reads.
CNN has reached out to the Pacific Disaster Center for clarification. This post has been updated with comments from a FEMA spokesperson regarding a reported damage estimate for the Lahaina fire.

Maui county officials reported 12 additional deaths on Friday bringing the count to 67.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) stated in its press release that 85% of the Lahaina fire was contained, the Pulehu/Kihei fire is 80% contained and the Upcountry Maui fire is only 50% contained. With residents now allowed back into Lahaina to check on their homes and asses damage, that number is expected to keep rising.
According to a statement from Maui county officials earlier Friday, residents who could show "proof of residency and visitors with proof of hotel reservations will have access." A curfew remains in place from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m., as West Maui remains without power or water.
The latest death toll marks this the deadliest natural disaster in the state's history. Previously, the deadliest natural disaster in the state occurred in 1960, when a tsunami killed 61 people. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has declared a public health emergency for Hawaii due to the wildfires.

HONOLULU (KHON2) — Maui officials said Wednesday that though weather conditions have improved, there are no changes in containment of the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires that have been raging since Tuesday. On Tuesday, an emergency proclamation was issued in response to the fires and that proclamation was extended Wednesday morning.
The National Guard said they have deployed Chinooks that are actively assisting in fighting the fires. Guardsmen are also on Maui, assisting with traffic control, security, and search and rescue. A chinook helicopter is being loaded to assist with fighting fires raging across Maui. Courtesy National Guard.
According to an early morning update on Wednesday, emergency services officials said they are treating three burn victims from Maui who have been sent to Oahu. More patients are expected to be flown out. Kula residents, north of Ohukai Road, were allowed to return home Wednesday morning.
For those searching for loved ones, the American Red Cross is acting as a clearinghouse for reconnecting those who are missing. Anyone searching for loved ones is asked to call 1-800-RED-CROSS. For those leaving Maui for Oahu, the convention center will be setup as a shelter for those that need the assistance.
For the latest visuals being sent in from Maui, click here. Lahaina Civic Center and Kihei Community Center were used as evacuation sites, however evacuees were moved to other shelters as a precautionary measure.
Maui County is reminding evacuees that shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. As of Wednesday morning, more than 2,000 people sought services at shelters, according to the American Red Cross who is staffing the shelters. Those wanting to assist by donating to shelters, may do so at War Memorial. It will be open for drop-offs Wednesday and Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Among the items being accepted are: non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets.
Officials are asking that donations not be dropped off at fire stations. The airport is also acting as a shelter for visitors who can’t get to their hotel. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke told KHON2 that there are 2,000 sheltering in the airport.
“One thing we want to make sure is that if you’re ordered to evacuate — evacuate, road closures are fast-moving depending on the necessity of it as our fire crews and our police officers deem necessary in both locations of upcountry and west Maui,” said spokesperson Mahina Martin. She added residents should only evacuate when ordered to leave. If you are not in the immediate danger area, you’re asked to shelter in place.
Due to unsafe conditions, all HIDOE public schools on Maui will be closed on Wednesday with the exception of Hana High and Elementary which will remain open. According to the HIDEO, student boarders at Lahainaluna High School were transported to Maui High School Tuesday evening to be picked up by family members or on-island emergency contacts. Kamehameha Schools Maui will also be closed due to the fire. Officials said “there is no immediate danger to the campus” but cited air quality as a deciding factor.
Maui County said bus riders can check the Maui Bus app for the latest updates. While all other bus services are planned to run as scheduled, commuters may experience delays.
Central Pacific Bank announced its Lahaina Branch will be closed on Wednesday. Bank of Hawaii’s Lahaina and Kahanu branches are closed until further notice. Central Pacific Bank closed their Lahaina and Kihei branches.
Kaiser Permanente clinics in Lahaina and Kihei are closed. Members will be contacted to reschedule appointments.
Haleakalā National Park announced it is closed until conditions improve due to blocked road access due to the fires and winds. Camping reservations are canceled as well as sunrise reservations on Wednesday. All public libraries on Maui are closed. Catholic Charities announced they’re closing their Maui office for the remainder of the week.
Young Brothers have delayed its “combo sailing” to Kaumalapau/Kaunakakai until Wednesday morning. It will arrive Wednesday night and they will then attempt to enter Kaumalapau on Thursday.
Maui fire crews had batted a brush fire all night long in the upcountry area of Kula. Crews were focusing on battling the fire up in Kula and strong winds did not help those efforts — with 80 miles per hour winds at times. Due to the wind conditions, all firefighting efforts are being done on the ground. Residents in Kula were ordered to evacuate their homes early Tuesday as a brushfire burned near the 200 subdivision off Aulii Drive.
Lahaina Bypass. MFD remained at the site of the fire that burned an estimated 675 acres of pastureland and gulches, including two structures, in the Olinda area.
Upcountry residents are asked to conserve water due to power outages affecting water access in some areas. Power outages were also affecting the island in the Lahaina area. HECO said power was restored to some parts but was still working on restoring power to parts of West Maui and Olinda-Piiholo. The mayor said crews are working to restore power as quickly as possible — in the meantime, they ask residents to conserve water as electricity is needed to pump the water into homes. Officials also ask drivers to be careful as lots of debris has been seen on the roadway.

Passengers try to rest and sleep after canceled and delayed flights while others wait to board flights off the island as thousands of passengers were stranded at the Kahului Airport (OGG) in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui in Kahului, Hawaii on August 9, 2023.
Airlines added flights to get travelers off of Maui after wildfires on the Hawaiian island killed at least 55 people and prompted evacuations. American Airlines , Southwest Airlines , Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska Airlines said they were adding service to help customers leave.
More than 11,000 people have been flown off the island since the fires began, Ed Sniffen, the state's transportation director, told a news conference late Wednesday local time, NBC News reported. Much of the seaside town of Lahaina had burned down, after the fires were fanned by winds from Hurricane Dora.
Hawaiian Airlines said it had added six additional Maui flights on Thursday and that it's using larger planes between Honolulu and Maui to move passengers as well as water, food and other essentials. The carrier discouraged travelers without reservations from coming to Kahului Airport in Maui because of crowding. The airline swapped out Airbus A321 narrow-body planes, which can seat about 190 passengers, for some of the flights for a Boeing 777-200, one of the largest planes in its fleet, which have 273 seats, according to American's website.
Southwest Airlines also said it was adding service to Hawaii from the U.S. mainland and intra-island flights. United Airlines said it has canceled Thursday's inbound flights to Kahului Airport, but that it's flying aircraft in empty to pick up travelers on Maui. Alaska Airlines said it added a "rescue flight" on Thursday, bringing the carrier's total departures from Maui to nine. All major airlines waived fare-differences and cancellation penalties for travelers whose trips were impacted by the fires.

SEATTLE — The Washington State Task Force is deploying 45 people from Pierce and King Counties to help with search and rescue efforts on the island, after wildfires burned hundreds of buildings and killed dozens. Officials in Hawaii said they expect the death toll to rise.
The team is traveling with about 60,000 pounds worth of equipment. “We have some structural specialists, rescue specialists, doctors, the typical team structure that we deploy with,” Tacoma firefighter and task force leader Todd Magliocca said. This isn’t the first time the team has been sent to Maui.
They were deployed there in 2018 for Hurricane Lane. “One of which did encompass with Hurricane Lane and then it also had some of the wildfires that occurred there as well so we’ll be doing something similar to that,” Nash said.
There are also five K9 teams traveling to the island. Johanna Hauxen and her dog, Bax, are part of the team. Bax is a FEMA-certified human remains detection dog.

A second team has been called and is on its way to help in the aftermath of the deadly Maui firestorm that has killed dozens and burned more than 1,000 structures. A 45-person team from Nevada deployed on short notice today for Hawaii to help victims involved in the deadly firestorm on Maui. The official death toll stood at 55 as of Friday afternoon with hundreds injured and about 1,000 structures destroyed. The historic town of Lahaina was especially hard hit with many people having to jump into the ocean to escape the fast-moving flames.
Earlier, a team that included two search dogs was called by the Federal Management Agency to go to Hawaii. One canine and four members of Nevada Task Force 1 departed the Las Vegas airport at 4:30 p.m. Thursday to meet up with a fifth member and another canine in Maui, Billy Samuels of the Clark County Fire Department said in an email. While the smaller team was at the airport preparing to depart, an informal request came in from FEMA and asked if NV-TF1 could support a Type III response. The official request was received by the NV-TF1 office at 6 p.m. Thursday. The office sent an alert Thursday evening for a 45-person team prepare for deployment. A Type III deployment consists of people to fill the following positions: hazmat, search, plans, tech information specialist, heavy rigging operator, drivers, rescue, canine and a medical component, to include a physician. Agencies that sent staffers include Clark County Fire Department, Henderson Fire Department, North Las Vegas Fire Department, Las Vegas Fire Department, Boulder City Fire Department, and civilians, Samuels said. The team departed Harry Reid International Airport at 11:45 a.m. today with an estimated arrival in Maui at 2:55 p.m. HST.
Contact Marvin Clemons at mclemons@reviewjournal.com. Follow @Marv_in_Vegas on X.

MAALAEA, Maui >>
Less than five hours after Maui County officials opened Honoapiilani Highway at noon today to allow Lahaina residents to return for the first time since Tuesday’s wildfires destroyed the town, police closed the road in both directions after confrontations broke out between residents and police over access to closed areas. Traffic had been flowing relatively smoothly through the Maalaea checkpoint before then, with police screening motorists to make sure that only Lahaina residents with identification, or visitors who could prove they were hotel guests in West Maui, could be let in.
Between 4 and 4:30 p.m., motorists waiting in a long line of cars on the Wailuku side of the checkpoint watched nearly 20 police cars and an ambulance speed by toward Lahaina. A short while later, police officers walking along the line of stopped cars informed motorists that the road was closed indefinitely in both directions. When asked for more information, an officer said a large number of vehicles were parked along the Lahaina Bypass and people had been walking into prohibited areas makai of the bypass, and that some of them became “emotional” when told by police to leave the area.
A second officer added that a near riot broke out in Lahaina between about 100 people and officers. Motorists were told that it was unknown when the highway would be reopened and were advised to turn around.
Maui Police Department officials did not immediately respond to Honolulu Star- Advertiser requests for additional information this evening, including whether there were any arrests or injuries. By 6 p.m., the highway at Maalaea appeared to be reopened to traffic outbound from Lahaina but remained closed to vehicles headed toward West Maui.
Maui County subsequently released a statement, saying, “The road to Lahaina was opened for local residents to provide medication and supplies to their families that remain in homes on the west side and in need of such assistance outside of the fire/biohazard zone. “Many people are parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into the areas Makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards.
This zone has been declared by Mayor (Richard) Bissen as an authorized personnel area only, and those caught within this zone will be escorted out and may be arrested. This area is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect their surviving family.
Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense, said 48 National Guard personnel are conducting search and rescue on Maui, and 20 others are doing traffic control. He said he’s not sure where those 20 personnel are stationed but said that 10 are on duty per shift, adding that the National Guard on Maui now are following orders from Maui County leadership.
They don’t have arresting power, Hickman said. Currently, there aren’t any requests to bring in more Guard personnel to Maui, he said.
Access also was being restricted in the Kaanapali area, where Maui police said it was evacuating residents around 6:30 p.m. today. Entry into the area will be allowed “once it is safe to do so,” MPD said on its Facebook Page.
Police said that individuals had entered “restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes” and said no unauthorized personnel are allowed in the burnt-out disaster zone. “Violators will be removed from the area and may face arrest,” it said. Star-Advertiser writer Mark Ladao contributed to this report.

The reopening of the road to Lahaina for West Maui residents to gather supplies such as medicine and food was short lived Friday after a brief opening was stalled by a car accident and people entering active police scenes, according to authorities.
Residents have been clamoring for access to return to their homes, survey the damage and collect needed items. Some have been able to get in via boat or while bringing supplies.
Officials on Thursday asked for patience as they work to search for the missing and recover people who died in the fires, but decided Friday to reopen Honoapiilani Highway for West Maui residents and visitors with reservations so they could gather their things. “We came from Kahana this morning for gas and supplies and are trying to get home with them,” said Evelyn Mitchell as she was stuck in traffic near the Maui Ocean Center around 4 p.m. “They finally let us out to get supplies and now we aren’t sure we can get back to our pets,” Mitchell said.
The road reopened at noon before a car accident on Kuihelani Highway shortly before 1 p.m. prompted county officials to tell the public not to go to Lahaina. The county said just before 4 p.m. that Kuiheilani had reopened, but not long after, police shut down the road again.
The Maui Police Department said on its Facebook page that many people were parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to dangerous conditions and biohazards. Police said people were going over barricades and closed-off areas and entered restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes.
Police said people who enter unauthorized areas endanger themselves and operations as MPD and National Guard must stop their searching efforts and escort individuals out. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen declared the area only accessible to authorized personnel and police said those caught in the zone will be escorted out and may be arrested. “This area is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect their surviving family. …
If people continue to disobey the orders, entry to Lahaina will be closed again and open to emergency personnel only,” MPD said shortly before shutting down the road. A spokesperson for MPD could not be reached for comment on Friday on the closure decision.
Cerizo said physical barricades had been set up and National Guard was on-site, and about 100 to 200 people came down hoping to get into Lahaina. People were still allowed to drive out of Lahaina.
Some have reported that there has been looting in the burned-down town as well. Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident, said he went to Lahaina town to survey the damage Wednesday when he saw people looting. He said he chased away someone apparently trying to rob the Maui Medical Center and saw another person who appeared to be stealing something out of a house or foundation.
Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state Department of Defense, said the National Guard is “plussing up a large amount of Guardsmen and by early next week, there will probably be over 100 on Maui, a lot of them doing the staff support,” which includes operations and logistics. Maui County would have to request the National Guard if it needs traffic and security control assistance. The National Guard said on Friday that there was no current request from the county for this type of assistance.
Federal, state and county crews are continuing to extinguish flare-ups and contain multiple active fires across the island. The Lahaina fire was 85 percent contained as of Friday afternoon, while the Pulehu/Kihei fire was 80 percent contained and the Upcountry fire was 50 percent contained. Another fire was reported above Puukolii at 6:10 p.m. Friday but was reported to be 100 percent contained before 8:30 p.m. The fire was in an area where a county fueling station was positioned Friday to distribute an estimated 3,000 gallons of gas and 500 gallons of diesel for an estimated 400 vehicles that were lined up before the operation begin, according to the county.
No fuel will be distributed Saturday. Fatalities due to the fire had grown to 80 as of 9 p.m. Friday.
A Federal Emergency Management Agency Search and Rescue Team, with expertise in human remains, is being deployed to Maui from Arizona and Nevada, the county said Friday afternoon. Five dogs are being utilized. The Family Assistance Center that was set up for family members searching for information on their loved ones will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday at the Kahului Community Center.
While many Lahaina-bound residents got stuck in Central Maui traffic or turned away, others successfully made it to Lahaina and back on Friday. Patrick Whalen and Wesley Osborne took things to their friend Evan Pascual, who lives in Honokowai, and also went to check on Osborne’s parents. “We took food, water, flashlights, batteries, ice, just anything that we could that he needed,” Whalen said.
Whalen set out from Kihei at 11 a.m., but because of traffic he did not reach Maalaea to pick up Osborne until 11:45. He said the road was blocked going into Lahaina at the bypass intersection — the only options then were going onto the bypass or turning to the Lahaina Cannery Mall.
When they returned to Kihei, they had to turn on North Kihei Road as police had traffic stopped into town because of the accident. They arrived back in Kihei around 3:30 p.m. Osborne said his parents apartment in Honokowai is currently without power — he also lives there, but has been spending the last few days with friends in South Maui. *
Managing Editor Colleen Uechi can be reached at cuechi@mauinews.com. Staff Writer Rob Collias can be reached at rcollias@mauinews.com. Staff Writer Melissa Tanji can be reached at mtanji@mauinews.com.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Powerful winds fueled by Hurricane Dora are keeping Hawaiian Electric crews busy statewide as they grapple with dozens of power outages across multiple islands.
At last check, the outages were impacting thousands of customers. And Maui has been hardest hit, with at least 15 separate outages impacting more than 12,400 customers. Hawaiian Electric said crews were trying to make repairs to about 30 downed poles and multiple spans of power lines in several areas, including in Puamana on Honoapiilani Highway.
Some customers in West Maui have been without electricity since 4:50 a.m. Tuesday. On Oahu, more than 1,000 customers were without power in Downtown Honolulu and Ala Moana.
Outages were also impacting other communities, including Waianae and the North Shore. On Hawaii Island, several outages were resolved, but a few smaller outages lingered. Hawaii Island officials said the outages could impact communications.
To stay up-to-date with severe weather updates, download the HNN Weather Now App. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

Residents of Lahaina were being allowed back home on Friday for the first time since wildfires that have killed at least 67 people turned large swaths of the centuries-old town into a hellscape of ashen rubble.
As search-and-rescue efforts continued on Maui after a fast-moving wildfire tore through the island and killed dozens of people, residents steeled themselves to return to the historic town of Lahaina after it was left in smoldering ruins. Maui County said those with proof of residency or hotel reservations could return to Lahaina beginning at noon Friday.
A curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. was in place, and barriers restricting access to certain areas — including the historic center — were in place because of hazardous conditions. “Everyone please brace themselves as they go back,” Green said.
The fire’s confirmed death toll rose to 67 as of Friday afternoon. Green said the blaze is probably the state’s deadliest natural disaster in decades. The catastrophe spurred President Biden to declare a major disaster in Hawaii, opening the door to federal aid.
About 1,000 people are missing, according to federal sources who were not authorized to speak publicly about the fires. The Lahaina fire, one of three that broke out Tuesday on Maui, was said to be 80% contained.
Residents and tourists described harrowing efforts to escape the blaze, with some people rushing into the ocean for safety. Many did not know about the fire until they saw flames and smoke, raising questions about official alerts and warnings about the blaze.
Records indicate that neither the state nor the county activated sirens Tuesday, said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Weintraub described Hawaii’s integrated outdoor siren system as the largest in the world, with about 400 sirens spread across the state.
It is traditionally used in disasters and other threats, such as hurricanes or coastal hazards, to advise people to seek more information — not to call for evacuations or advise that people seek shelter — he said. Three other public warning systems were used, Weintraub said: wireless emergency alerts to cellphones, broadcasts through radio and television stations and notifications that residents can sign up to receive through a local emergency alert system.
But power outages and communication issues may have affected those alerts. Much of the west side of Maui remained without internet, power and water Friday morning, although officials said some cellphone service was available.
Federal sources with knowledge of the fires but who were not authorized to speak publicly told The Times that a breakdown in emergency communications cost precious time, and a number of people in the historic town of Lahaina learned too late about the oncoming fire. Many of those killed were believed to have died in their vehicles, those sources said. The death toll is currently tied to the most urbanized areas, with some bodies recovered from the harbor, they said.
“I know that fires came up so quickly and they spread so fast,” he said. Bissen said the death toll so far reflects only those who were found outside buildings.
“We have not yet searched the interior of the buildings,” he said, adding that authorities are awaiting search help from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. State and local agencies were assisting with search-and-rescue efforts.
Progress against the Upcountry fire, which broke out in a rural area on the island, was still being assessed. A third blaze, the Pulehu fire, was at 70% containment, officials said. Firefighters were continuing their efforts to secure the perimeters and battle all the blazes.
Kayes, 49, lives in Maui’s Upcountry region, where one of the fires began. He watched from his backyard Tuesday night as the blaze grew into a swell of orange flames that glowed against the black sky. “It looked like a lava flow,” he said.
The fires overtook and closed many roads, which became congested and stranded hundreds of people as they raced to the island’s only major airport, Kahului, where tens of thousands of visitors have left on flights, officials said. Green estimated that as many as 1,700 buildings have been destroyed in the fires, hundreds of them in Lahaina. Even some of the vessels in Lahaina Harbor were burned. Maui’s famed Banyan Tree, a 150-year-old landmark with deep significance that is a tourist attraction on the island, was “smoldering at the base, but still standing,” Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) wrote on Twitter.
Green had been traveling out of state but returned to Maui on Thursday to assess the damage. He said during a public briefing that he expected the cost of the recovery to be in the “billions of dollars.” Accuweather had a preliminary estimate of damage and economic loss at $8 billion to $10 billion.
Search-and-rescue teams, some equipped with cadaver dogs, from local and state agencies are assisting in the aftermath. California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Thursday deployed urban search-and-rescue personnel and other resources.
The search also unfolded online, where many turned to a spreadsheet on Google Drive to search for loved ones. By Thursday evening, the spreadsheet grew as new rows for the missing were added and loved ones marked dozens of family members as “found.” The link to the sheet repeatedly crashed because of high traffic.
Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, has been searching for names she recognizes on the Google spreadsheet. Coleman was in Los Angeles when the fires broke out, but said that based on satellite imagery, her home appears to be standing.
She said she has not heard from two of her elderly neighbors, whom she described as her “ohana,” or family. Although the rest of the state remains open to visitors, officials have asked nonresidents to leave Maui and urged others to avoid nonessential trips to the island.
The cause of the blaze has not been determined, but a number of factors — including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation — probably contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for the Hawaii’s Department of Defense. The weather service had issued a red flag warning ahead of the fires, indicating that warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds were expected to combine to produce an increased risk of fire danger. But Hara said wind strength — forecast at 50 to 55 mph — far exceeded the predictions, reaching 85 mph. Experts also said that climate change was increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather and that the changing landscape of unmanaged, nonnative grasslands from declining agriculture is a contributing factor to fire risks.
Jayme Gomes, a 29-year-old Wrightwood, Calif., resident whose father was born on the island and lives in Lahaina, told The Times she didn’t hear from her father until Thursday afternoon. His house had burned and he was separated from relatives during the evacuation, but he made it to the other side of the island and found a phone charger. Gomes’ family is now staying with friends in Hawaii. Times staff writers Jeremy Childs and Jack Herrera contributed to this report.

Tune into CNN AC360 tonight for Chief Investigative Correspondent Pamela Brown’s report on this story.
A year and a half later, the catastrophic fires that engulfed Maui and the historic town of Lahaina this week have already become the state’s deadliest natural disaster in more than six decades, with a fatality count of at least 93. Hawaii officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires even as they acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate them, according to a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state was for the disaster. The report recommended a thorough risk assessment of fire hazards, but it’s not clear whether officials heeded the recommendation.
Other reports over the past five years show authorities knew the risk of fires was increasing and could be exacerbated by hurricane-force winds – like the Lahaina blaze was. “Fires occurring as a result of and concurrent with another major threat or disaster, such as a hurricane, are particularly challenging,” one report stated, with first responders and firefighters stretched to capacity.
During this week’s fires, Hurricane Dora was hundreds of miles south of Maui, but the storm’s winds still fanned flames on the island. The state emergency management agency’s public resources webpage also lays out clear, bullet-point recommendations of what residents should do in the event of a hurricane, tsunami, flash flood or earthquake. At the bottom of the page, the agency includes two short paragraphs about wildfires – with no similar advice on ways to stay safe.
Hawaii and Maui County officials didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment Friday as disaster response efforts continued. While fires were historically sparked by volcanic eruptions and lightning strikes, the area burned in the state each year has dramatically increased over recent decades, according to a 2014 report by University of Hawaii researcher Clay Trauernicht. In August 2018, brush fires broke out as Hurricane Lane neared Maui.
The fires engulfed more than 2,000 acres and forced dozens to flee their homes. The storm should have been considered a “real-world wakeup” call for Hawaii, according to a 2019 plan from the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.
Large fires also whipped through Maui in 2019, burning roughly 25,000 acres of former sugarcane land and dry brush as Hawaii endured record high temperatures. The increase in fires comes as Maui has faced worsening drought conditions in recent years, according to federal data. Also, people have introduced new grass species and shrubs to the island that act as kindling in dry conditions.
Despite these growing dangers, Hawaii state budgets for fire management have not kept pace with worsening conditions, according to the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization, a nonprofit. The 2021 Maui County report also recommended an “aggressive plan to replace” flammable nonnative grass species, but it’s unclear whether local officials took action to do so. Hawaii is hardly unique: As climate change is exacerbating natural disasters, state officials across the country are also struggling to respond to new threats.
And it’s unclear how significantly additional preparedness and mitigation efforts could have reduced the destruction of a blaze with the intensity and speed of the Lahaina wildfire. “This didn’t happen historically,” he said, noting that Lahaina stood for two centuries before the fires swept through it.
Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that the state would need to do more to prevent a similar disaster in the future. “As we rebuild, we’ll have to take into consideration a lot more fire safety,” he said during a press conference. “It’s going to be a really long time, I think, before people forget this,” she said.

Video from the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources shows the widespread destruction in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week. A windswept fire invaded a historic town in Maui this week, setting in motion a familiar and terrifying chain of events.
Evacuations were chaotic as a storm of embers turned Lahaina into ash. Some ran for their lives, plunging into the harbor of the West Maui town, which has centuries of history and once hosted the royal residence of the Hawaiian king.
Others were trapped by an urban conflagration. Survivors described frantic efforts to escape death in a town that had been cut off from telecommunications and electricity. One witness recalled encountering a line of burned vehicles, some with charred corpses inside.
Law enforcement sources with knowledge of the fire told The Times that many of those killed are believed to have died in their vehicles. The death toll thus far is from the most urbanized areas, with some bodies recovered from the harbor as well. Communication breakdowns meant many people were told too late about the wall of flames racing toward them, the sources said.
“It looked like they were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic,” Tiffany Kidder Winn told the Associated Press. The official death toll as of Saturday morning was 80 — and was expected to climb. Federal officials say nearly 1,000 people are missing.
Crystal Kolden, a professor of fire science at UC Merced, said reports from the area suggest that for many people, this was a “no-notice evacuation,” which also occurred in some of California’s deadliest wildfires, including the 2018 Camp fire that destroyed the town of Paradise and the 2017 wine country fires. Vulnerabilities are compounded when communication systems fail before warnings are sent.
Hawaii state officials say they have an outdoor siren warning system, and sirens exist in Lahaina. But Hawaii officials told the AP they don’t have records indicating Maui’s sirens were activated Tuesday when the fires began. Sources told The Times the emergency siren system was not triggered, and authorities instead opted to try to send messages through phone alerts — warnings that did not reach many people because communications were already down.
Officials will probably investigate whether authorities were too quick to lower the sense of alarm after flames first broke out in Lahaina, despite warnings from the National Weather Service of severe fire weather. Bulletins posted on Maui County’s Facebook page indicate that the first report of a brush fire in Lahaina came in at 6:37 a.m. Tuesday, and evacuations were ordered within three minutes around Lahaina Intermediate School on the town’s northeastern edge, at its highest elevations. The blaze hit as fire crews were battling another wildfire farther east. But the sense of alarm seemed to fade by around 10 a.m., when Maui County said it had declared the Lahaina brush fire “100% contained,” although it did warn of power outages limiting the ability to pump water and a report of a downed electric line in the area.
The focus at that point seemed to shift to the east. Then came word that the Lahaina fire had flared up in the afternoon.
Maui County said around 3:30 p.m. that the fire forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass, a major road also known as Route 3000 near the intermediate school. The message on Facebook said evacuations were occurring in that area.
The blaze began burning homes in that upper area, Maui County Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. It then moved downhill, southwest toward the coast, following prevailing winds and toward the Kahoma neighborhood.
Eventually, virtually all of central Lahaina was reduced to ash. “It’s all gone,” Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. At one point, the fire spread so rapidly from brush to the first neighborhood that residents “were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice,” Ventura said.
In interviews with the Associated Press, survivors described a frantic escape hampered by a lack of phone service and electricity. One retiree described learning of danger only when he smelled smoke and hid behind a seawall for hours; another fled with his brother on foot, running through the night into the next day, bypassing vehicles that were stuck on clogged roads.
The cause of the fire is under investigation. But the disaster comes amid years of evidence about the increased threat of wildfires to Hawaii — warnings that seem to have received little attention beyond some scientists and obscure county documents. Despite that, leaders expressed shock at the wildfire’s devastation. “Nobody saw this coming,” Maui County Police Chief John Pelletier said at a news conference late Thursday.
Wildfires are now threatening many more lives than they once did across the globe. California has been reeling from ever-more destructive fires that can give people precious little time to flee.
Climate change could be one contributing factor, with hotter weather drying out vegetation, which can then fuel brush fires. But there is a host of other reasons for the increasing risk in Hawaii, including the spread of highly flammable, nonnative grasses left on abandoned sugar cane or pineapple farms and ranches, said Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The state’s last sugar plantation closed in 2016.
Nonnative grasses were brought to Hawaii to feed cattle when people of European ancestry arrived on the islands. Because they can quickly spread over abandoned farm and ranch lands, they can build up to such high amounts of biomass that fire weather conditions “makes us so vulnerable,” Trauernicht said.
And more land is being burned each year. From the 1900s through the 1980s, an average of 5,000 acres statewide burned every year. Since then, 20,000 acres burn annually, he said. There are ways to help alleviate the fire fuel factor, such as working with ranchers to have livestock eat the nonnative grasses, reforesting areas or restoring wetland taro fields to establish fuel breaks, he said.
World & Nation Photos: Maui devastated by deadly wildfire A Maui tourist hub looks like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes in one of the deadliest U.S. blazes in recent years. Drought trends are also a factor in the fires. “We’ve been seeing increasing frequency of drought events, and much longer and more severe droughts, happening in the state of Hawaii,” said Laura Brewington, co-director of a climate research program in Hawaii called the Pacific Research on Island Solutions for Adaptation. Weather whiplash hasn’t helped.
The winter brought La Niña conditions, which generally means abundant rainfall for Hawaii. But that weather phenomenon has since transitioned into El Niño, which usually brings heat and wind, Brewington said, along with a pretty active hurricane season in the Pacific Ocean.
The sequence of a particularly bountiful wet season that allows grasses to grow, followed by a dry spell that desiccates them, results in a particularly high fuel load for fires, she said. More frequent wildfires also pose a permanent risk to Hawaii’s native forests, which risk irreversible changes. Fires are not a natural component of Hawaii’s ecosystem, as lightning is quite rare. Other factors also play a role, such as the apparent lack of a backup plan for what, in California, is now considered a predictable disaster: strong winds that knock out communication and electricity systems ahead of a fire ignition, leaving some with little or no warning before a wall of flames bears down on their doorstep.
Lahaina is especially vulnerable because of few exit routes. Hemmed in by the ocean and Mauna Kahalawai, or the West Maui Mountains, there are only two routes out of town along the coast. And both were jammed — one way out was closed because 29 power poles were down and still energized, and the other route is so narrow
it’s one lane only in most places, said Bissen, the mayor. Lahaina’s geographic orientation also puts it at significant risk. With high pressure to the northeast and low pressure from Hurricane Dora far to the southwest — and because wind flows from areas of high to low pressure — Lahaina was arguably in the worst possible situation once a fire ignited.
The potential for high fire danger was well anticipated by the National Weather Service. Four days before multiple wildfires broke out Tuesday, the weather service in Honolulu warned of “high fire danger;” two days before the fire, the agency published an animation showing how damaging winds and fire weather were expected Monday through Wednesday. Lahaina was in the direct line of downslope winds moving from the northeast to the southwest, what Southern Californians would call Santa Ana winds.
As the air is forced to descend down the mountain slope, it increases speed, warms up, and dries out further, and “you get that trifecta of hot, dry and windy and downslope winds,” said UC Merced climatologist John Abatzoglou. In Lahaina, such winds would aim flames and embers from the mountains to the shoreline, leaving some people nowhere to flee except the harbor. Hawaii faced similar weather conditions in 2018 that were also associated with wildfires. In that case, Hurricane Lane’s path triggered downslope winds, helping to fan wildfires in the state. But those blazes were nowhere near as destructive as this week’s catastrophe. Times staff writers Hayley Smith, Paul Duginski and Jeremy Childs contributed to this report.

The first thing you notice is the natural beauty. You've been to the beach a million times.
You've seen the ocean on both sides of the continental United States. But you've never looked at anything quite like this -- the blue skies separated from the blue water only by mountains covered in green. It's amazing.
I'd observed Maui on television pretty much my entire life because it's long been the home of college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving. It had forever been a bucket-list item for me to attend. But, despite covering the sport for more than 20 years, I'd never actually made the trek to the Maui Invitational until I did so in November 2018, when Zion Williamson and Duke were the biggest draw in the nation and on a collision course with Mark Few's Gonzaga program that was just two seasons removed from a trip to the title game of the NCAA Tournament and only two seasons away from another. The Zags won Maui that year, you might remember.
Rui Hachimura was the MVP. But nearly five years later, when I look back on that experience, I don't think about the games as much as I reminisce about the super-early morning walks and the realization that EVERYBODY takes super-early morning walks in Maui because nobody's body-clock gets adjusted until it's time to leave.
Typically, once I see a place, and enjoy a place, I mark it off a list. If I make it back someday, great. But once I've seen it, and once I've enjoyed it, I'm not usually eager to get back and do it again.
Maui was different, though. It was just so beautiful and so peaceful and so laid back that I remember thinking about how I'd definitely like to return someday with my family and take super-early morning walks with them.
Which is among the reasons why what I've been watching on television the past few days has been so heartbreaking and sad to see. Ninety-three people are confirmed dead because of catastrophic wildfires fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from Hurricane Dora, making this the deadliest US fire in more than a century.
Countless other folks have lost everything. According to authorities, more than 1,000 structures have been damaged or destroyed.
The result is that, in a matter of days, one of the most beautiful places in our country has been reduced to what looks like a post-apocalyptic scene from a movie. From the sky, it looks unbelievable. From the ground, it looks terrifying.
Who knows if it'll ever look the same again? The before-and-after pictures are saddening.
Fortunately, the Lahaina Civic Center, that 2,400-seat, five-decade-old building with an iconic mural behind one basket, remains intact even if it did reportedly have to be evacuated after earlier serving as an evacuation center. The fires got very close to the home of the Maui Invitational but do not appear to have done any notable damage. At least not yet.
Let's keep our fingers crossed. Maui Invitational officials have stated that they are "actively monitoring the wildfire situation on Maui" and that they "will share more information as it becomes available." It's obviously too early to know whether the event will be held as scheduled in November for Chaminade, Gonzaga, Kansas, Marquette, Purdue, Syracuse, Tennessee and UCLA or if it'll have to be relocated to Honolulu or the continental United States like it was in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. As always, we'll see.
But what's already clear is that even if seven teams from the mainland do travel to Maui in three months to participate as planned, their super-early morning walks won't be highlighted by the same serene views I and so many others have enjoyed since this event started giving basketball enthusiasts a great reason to travel there nearly 40 years ago.

The deadliest and most destructive U.S. wildfires of 2023 thus far swept through Hawai‘i on Tuesday night and Wednesday, Aug. 8-9. At least 36 deaths had been reported from the fires by early Thursday, with an uncertain number of people injured.
The worst damage was on Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed. More than 271 structures in Lahaina had been affected, Maui County authorities reported in a news release late Wednesday. Two other blazes, the Upcountry and Pūlehu fires, destroyed several homes elsewhere on Maui. Three fires were in progress on the island of Hawai‘i, but no injuries or structural losses had been reported by late Wednesday, according to the Associated Press.
Update: Maui County announced on Sunday, August 13, that the death toll from the Lahaina Fire was up to 93, as reported by the Associated Press. This makes it the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century, as detailed at the bottom of this point. The toll is expected to rise even further as searchers canvass more of the affected area.
More than 2,200 structures were damaged or destroyed in the Lahaina Fire; more than 500 others, mostly homes, were affected by Maui’s Upcountry Fire. Aerial images showed fire-charred structures throughout the core of Lahaina, which served as the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom from 1820 to 1845. Most of the town is part of a National Historic Landmark District, with a number of buildings dating back 150 to 200 years.
Damages to Lahaina could well run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, if not even more, likely making it the worst natural disaster in state history since Hurricane Iniki caused $6.7 billion in damage in 1992. The loss of two centuries of civic and architectural history, and the psychic impact of the fire on Maui residents, are incalculable. Some think of Lahaina as a "vacation destination," but @KanielaIng underscored its significance long predates Western interest.
The flames that tore across Maui were fanned by winds gusting from 40 to 80 mph, driven by an expansive and unusually strong high-pressure cell that was intensifying to the north of Hawai‘i. At the same time, Category 4 Hurricane Dora was passing well to the south of Hawaii, and the contrast between Dora and the surface high only added to a sprawling area of strong easterly winds. These easterly winds warmed, dried, and intensified as they descended the West Maui Mountains and swept into Lahaina. Such mountain downslope winds have fueled some of the most destructive wildfires in recent U.S. history, including Colorado’s Marshall Fire of Dec. 30, 2021, and several of the worst Santa Ana and Diablo wind-driven fires on record in California.
It’s an open question how much the presence of Dora may have fueled the strength of the winds that ripped across Hawai‘i. Dora has been remarkably potent for a long time – the storm has logged more hours as a category 4 hurricane than any other in reliable records for the Pacific that go back more than 50 years (see more on Dora below) – but the storm has also remained quite compact.
Moreover, its center took a westward path that stayed more than 700 miles south of the island. Dora’s tropical-storm-force winds extended no more than about 150 miles north of its center, and surface pressures were higher than average across most of the area between the islands and Dora when the fires erupted (see Figure 1 below). The resilience and strength of both Dora and the surface high north of Hawai‘i may both be linked to larger-scale dynamical features that have kept both Dora and the high pushing westward over the past several days.
In similar fashion, Hurricane Ophelia – which passed northward well off the coast of Portugal in October 2017 as the easternmost hurricane on record for the Atlantic – was embedded within, and helped reinforce, a large-scale steering flow that drove hot, dry southerly winds across the Iberian Peninsula, stoking wildfires that took at least 49 lives in Portugal and Spain. Such events are often considered compound disasters, as they involve multiple factors that add up to a disastrous sum greater than its parts.
Many of the western (leeward or downslope) parts of the Hawaiian Islands, including much of West Maui, have arid or semiarid climates. Much like Southern California, rainfall is concentrated in the late fall through early spring, and drought conditions are common in summer. Long-term warming tends to make even naturally occurring periods of drought hotter, thus parching the landscape more readily.
According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, the western coast of Maui was experiencing moderate to severe drought as of Aug. 8. As shown in Figure 3 below, drought conditions in August were more intense during the La Niña years of 2020, 2021, and 2022 than they are right now.
So while the current drought is not exceptional, it was enough to help create a fire-friendly environment when the fierce, dry downslope winds arrived. It’s also possible that the record-hot air mass over the U.S. Southwest — whose unprecedented heat has been deemed virtually impossible without human-induced climate change ­­— played an indirect role in the Maui fires. Upper-level steering currents around the massive high appear to have pushed a wedge of unusually warm, dry air, extending several miles above ground level, westward all the way to Hawai‘i, as shown in the animation embedded below (the acronym PGF refers to pressure gradient force, which is proportional to the difference in high pressure and low pressure across a given distance).
This air mass would have then descended the tall slopes of Maui into areas that ultimately burned. A formal climate attribution study would help shed light on how much the factors above played into the catastrophic compound disaster across Maui, and how likely or unlikely it is that they would have come together as they did in the absence of climate change.
UPDATE: A great video explainer by hurricane scientist Philippe Papin (see Tweet below) showed that if one removed Hurricane Dora from a weather model, only a slight reduction in the winds over Hawai’i would have resulted. Still, the presence of Dora could have been strong enough to push the observed downslope wind event into the catastrophic category. Assuming the fires in Maui were at least partially Dora-related, then Dora is the second tropical cyclone to affect Hawai‘i so far in 2023.
On July 18-19, Tropical Storm Calvin passed about 100 miles to the south of the Big Island with sustained winds of 45-50 mph. Calvin brought widespread rainfall amounts of two to four inches to the Big Island and Maui, which caused minor flooding and scattered power outages.
A few locations on the Big Island received rains of five to seven inches, according to the final report from the National Weather Service. A 2016 modeling study found that we could expect to see a significant increase in hurricanes near Hawai‘i in coming decades due to climate change; see also Jeff Masters’ August 2014 post, Climate Change May Increase the Number of Hawaiian Hurricanes. Only five named systems at tropical storm strength or higher have made a direct landfall in Hawai‘i since modern recordkeeping began in 1949. At 11 a.m. EDT Thursday, Dora was still a category 4 hurricane with 140 mph winds, located 1,010 miles southwest of Honolulu, Hawai‘i, and headed just north of due west at 22 mph.
Dora is expected to weaken only very slowly and will likely cross the international date line by Friday night as a category 3 storm, becoming Typhoon Dora in the western Pacific. Only three other central Pacific major hurricanes have been recorded to cross into the western Pacific and become major typhoons there: Genevieve (2014), Ioke (2006), and John (1994).
By early next week, Dora will move more to the northwest and encounter cooler waters and higher wind shear, which will put an end to this unusually long-lived storm. Dora is not a threat to any land areas.
#Dora continues to explore the Pacific Ocean. It is now south of Hawaii, having traveled over 3,300 miles since its formation near Mexico a week ago.
Although Canada is having its worst wildfire season in modern history, and sending massive volumes of smoke into the United States, the U.S. itself is having its least-fiery year in more than a decade. As of Aug. 9, 2023 has been the least active for U.S. wildfire in terms of acreage burned since at least 2013, according to statistics from the National Interagency Fire Center. This year’s U.S. fires (including those in Alaska and Hawai‘i) have burned 1,411,277 acres through Aug. 9, which is only about a third of the annual average up to that date across the last 10 years.
In the center’s full-year database, which goes back to 1983, every year since 1998 has ended up scorching at least 3.4 million acres by Dec. 31. It remains to be seen how long residual moisture from the notably wet winter of 2022-23 will help keep landscapes across the western U.S. relatively fire-free.
CNN is offering a link to help wildfire victims in Hawai‘i. Donations can go to multiple nonprofits, including the American Red Cross, Maui United Way, Maui Humane Society, and Salvation Army. Website visitors can comment on “Eye on the Storm” posts (see comments policy below). Sign up to receive notices of new postings here.

Effective Immediately, the road to Lahaina, via Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed in both directions.
Police had reports that many people were parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards. This zone has been declared as a site for authorized personnel area only. Police say those caught within this zone will be escorted out and may be arrested.
Maui police spokesperson Alana Pico said people continued to disobey the orders to stay out of restricted areas, and entry to Lahaina was effectively closed. The area is currently open to emergency personnel only until further notice.
ACCESS TO LAHAINA THROUGH MAALAEA TO REOPEN TO RESIDENTS OF WEST MAUI. Motorists need to show proof of residency, and visitors must show proof of a hotel reservation.
This starts at noon today (Aug. 11, 2023). CURFEW IMPLEMENTED:
A curfew will be in place from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. daily in Historic Lahaina Town and affected areas. That means that access through Māʻalaea to get to Lahaina will be closed between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., with no access into the restricted zone of Lahaina Town will be in effect until hazardous conditions improve.
The County of Maui will be working to secure the heavily impacted area of Lahaina Town. The area is being protected so that search crews looking for victims can continue to work in the area and because the fire has caused unsafe conditions. No unauthorized public access will be allowed beyond barricaded areas. West Maui remains without power and water, and search crews continue efforts in the Lahaina town area for victims of the brush fire.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) -
An unsafe water advisory on Maui has been expanded to include more Maui communities in the wake of the Lahaina disaster. Officials now say residents from Kaniau Road to Leiali Parkway should only use bottled water for consumption and cooking. The advisory remains in effect for areas of Lahaina and Upper Kula.
Officials say harmful contaminants may have entered the water system after fires destroyed structures and some areas of the water system lost pressure. The advisory remains in effect until further notice. Residents should not drink and boil water.
Seabury Hall in Upcountry Maui has opened up it’s showers and gym for public use. Contaminants in the water could include benzene and other volatile organic chemicals.
Drinking the water could lead to serious illness, the county said. Instead of drinking tap water, customers are urged to use only bottled water for drinking, brushing teeth, making ice and preparing food.
Water buffalo tankers with drinkable water are stationed at the following Upcountry locations: Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center and Keokea. The West Maui locations include: Puamana Street, Kahoma Village, Lahaina Gateway Shopping Center and Honokohau.
One tanker is at each site, while Lahaina Gateway has two. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — A raging wildfire that swept through a picturesque town on the Hawaiian island of Maui this week has killed at least 89 people, authorities said Saturday, making it the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the past century.
The new death toll Saturday came as federal emergency workers with axes and cadaver dogs picked through the aftermath of the blaze, marking the ruins of homes with a bright orange X for an initial search and HR when they found human remains. Dogs worked the rubble, and their occasional bark — used to alert their handlers to a possible corpse — echoed over the hot and colorless landscape.
The inferno that swept through the centuries-old town of Lahaina on Maui’s west coast four days earlier torched hundreds of homes and turned a lush, tropical area into a moonscape of ash. The state’s governor predicted more bodies will be found.
At least two other fires have been burning in Maui, with no fatalities reported thus far: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. A fourth broke out Friday evening in Kaanapali, a coastal community in West Maui north of Lahaina, but crews were able to extinguish it, authorities said.
Green said the Upcountry fire had affected 544 structures, of which 96% were residential. Emergency managers in Maui were searching for places to house people displaced from their homes. As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook early Saturday, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center.
Those who escaped counted their blessings, thankful to be alive as they mourned those who didn’t make it. Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos, initially stayed behind to help others in Lahaina and save Bogar’s house. But as the flames moved closer and closer Tuesday afternoon, they knew they had to get out.
Each escaped to his own car. When Bogar’s wouldn’t start, he broke through a window to get out, then crawled on the ground until a police patrol found him and brought him to a hospital.
Trejos wasn’t as lucky. When Bogar returned the next day, he found the bones of his 68-year-old friend in the back seat of his car, lying on top of the remains of the Bogars’ beloved 3-year-old golden retriever Sam, whom he had tried to protect.
Trejos, a native of Costa Rica, had lived for years with Bogar and his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar, helping her with her seizures when her husband couldn’t. He filled their lives with love and laughter. “God took a really good man,” Weber-Bogar said.
Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street, fled on his Harley Davidson, whipping the motorcycle onto empty sidewalks Tuesday to avoid traffic-jammed roads as embers burned the hair off the back of his neck. Riding in winds he estimated to be at least 70 miles per hour (112 kilometers per hour), he passed a man on a bicycle who was pedaling for his life. “It’s something you’d see in a Twilight Zone, horror movie or something,” Wyland said.
The newly released death toll surpassed the toll of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. A century earlier, the 1918 Cloquet Fire broke out in drought-stricken northern Minnesota and raced through a number of rural communities, destroying thousands of homes and killing hundreds. The wildfires are the state’s deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people.
An even deadlier tsunami in 1946, which killed more than 150 on the Big Island, prompted development of a territory-wide emergency alert system with sirens that are tested monthly. Hawaii emergency management records do not indicate the warning sirens sounded before fire hit the town. Officials sent alerts to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations, but widespread power and cellular outages may have limited their reach.
Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the wildfires on Maui raced through parched brush covering the island. The most serious blaze swept into Lahaina on Tuesday and destroyed nearly every building in the town of 13,000, leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes. Front Street, the heart of the historic downtown and Maui’s economic hub, was nearly empty of life Saturday morning.
An Associated Press journalist encountered one barefoot resident carrying a laptop and a passport, who asked where the nearest shelter was. Another, riding a bicycle, took stock of the damage at the harbor, where he said his boat caught fire and sank.
Maui water officials warned Lahaina and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure. The danger on Maui was well known.
Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 identified Lahaina and other West Maui communities as having frequent wildfires and several buildings at risk. The report also noted West Maui had the island’s second-highest rate of households without a vehicle and the highest rate of non-English speakers. “This may limit the population’s ability to receive, understand and take expedient action during hazard events,” the plan stated.
Maui’s firefighting efforts may have been hampered by limited staff and equipment. Bobby Lee, president of the Hawaii Firefighters Association, said there are a maximum of 65 county firefighters working at any given time, who are responsible for three islands: Maui, Molokai and Lanai.
Green said officials will review policies and procedures to improve safety. Riley Curran said he fled his Front Street home after climbing up a neighboring building to get a better look.
He doubts county officials could have done more, given the speed of the onrushing flames. Curran said he had seen horrendous wildfires growing up in California.
Kelleher reported from Honolulu, and Dupuy reported from New York. Associated Press writers Rebecca Boone in Boise, Idaho; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan in New York; Audrey McAvoy in Wailuku, Hawaii; Ty O’Neil in Lahaina, Hawaii; and Lisa J. Adams Wagner in Evans, Georgia, contributed to this report.
Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Officials are scrambling to evacuate thousands of visitors from Maui as crews continue to battle devastating wildfires burning across the island.
The state says it’s preparing to move visitors unable to return to their homes to the Hawaii Convention Center, where displaced Maui residents will also be welcome. The Hawaii Tourism Authority worked with the American Red Cross to set up the assistance center.
Mass evacuation staging areas were set up in Maui on Wednesday afternoon, and the city is offering shuttle buses from Honolulu’s airport to the convention center every 20 minutes. Officials say the mass evacuation will continue Thursday morning for both residents and tourists in West Maui.
Bus boarding happens at Whalers Village fronting Kaanapali Parkway starting at 8:30 a.m. Visitors will be taken directly to Kahului Airport via three Roberts Hawaii Motor Coaches and residents will be taken to a central Maui shelter.
Additional buses from partner companies will be added as needed. Maui County officials are advising visitors to leave Lahaina and Maui altogether so that limited resources can go to helping the residents. The state says it will evacuate 4,000 tourists out of Maui to Oahu, where they will be put up at the Hawaii Convention Center or seek their own accommodations.
Meanwhile, to help people get out of Maui as quickly as possible Hawaiian Airlines says it’s added flights and is offering low $19 fares main cabin fares. “We’re doing what we can to provide resources to take care of our employees, and we’re doing what we can to take care of our guests,” said Hawaiian Air CEO Peter Ingram. Hawaiian Air said it’s also offering greater flexibility for those looking to change Maui travel. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

The town of Lahaina on Maui is being absolutely pummeled by fire, spurred by wind from a hurricane that passed by.
Hundreds of people evacuated. Power and cell service have been down for many. A Presidential Disaster Declaration is expected.
Maui lacks ICU beds and burn victims are being flown to Oahu. Due to the ongoing wildfires in Maui, and the need for people to get off of that Island, Southwest is offering $19.00 fares for all nonstop interisland flights today through Friday. There are also lower fares from Hawaii to the mainland for that same timeframe.
The interisland pet fare is being decreased to $1.00 per flight. The fares have been published online, and Customers have already begun booking. Their 11 daily Maui – Honolulu flights are pricing at $19 all-in tomorrow in addition to these Maui – Kona flights.
I’d likely stay away from West Maui, and reconsider imminent travel to the island generally, while resources focus on mitigating damage and saving lives. Parts of the island are broadly unaffected and should be open to tourism, but many of you will have spent a good bit of time in and around Lahaina duriing visists to places like the Westin Maui and Hyatt Regency.

We will continue to update this post with the latest developments on the devastating Maui wildfires.
The confirmed death toll from the Lahaina fires rose to 115 people on Monday, Aug. 21, according to Maui County, making it the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in a century and a profound loss for our community. Recovery teams continue to make their way through the devastation in Lahaina.
Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Tuesday said between 1,000 and 1,100 people are still classified as “unaccounted for” while thousands of those initially missing were reported found. Gov. Josh Green says he expects the number of people killed by the fast-moving fires to rise each day as the disaster crews go through the buildings within the impact zone of the historic, beloved and culturally significant onetime capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Disaster aid from across the state and the nation continues to flow in from federal, private and community members sending donations, emergency items and volunteers.
Bissen says he expects those numbers to fluctuate as the FBI, Maui Police and others try to work through the lists of people, some identified by only their first name. Maui police ask for reports of anyone still unaccounted for after the wildfire disaster to contact the department at unaccounted@mpd.net. If an individual was unaccounted for and has since made contact, the FBI urges that information be shared at (808) 566-4300 or hn-command-post@ic.fbi.gov so they can be removed from the list of people who are still missing.
Biden also spoke near the charred 150-year-old banyan tree, blackened but still standing. “Trees survive for a reason. I believe it’s a powerful, very powerful symbol, of what we can and will do to get through this crisis.” Then the Bidens spent several hours talking to residents and survivors at a community center before leaving Hawai‘i about 4 p.m. Monday.
FEMA officials Tuesday reported that the major disaster declaration was changed to provide additional funding to restore or rebuild disaster-damaged public facilities as well as eligible private nonprofits. Maui officials continued the painful task of releasing the names of victims who have been identified and family notified.
Maui police Tuesday identified eight more of those who died in the fires, seven more Lahaina residents and a visitor from California. They are Narciso Baylosis Jr., 67; Vanessa Baylosis, 67; Theresa Cook, 72, of California; Antonia Molina, 64; Joseph Schilling, 67; Freeman Tam Lung, 59; Clyde Wakida, 74; and Todd Yamafuji, 68. They joined the names of other Lahaina residents identified earlier, including Douglas Gloege 59; and Juan Deleon, 45; Conchita Sagudang, 75; Danilo Sagudang, 55; Rodolfo Rocutan, 76; Jonathan Somaoang, 76; and Angelita Vasquez, 88.
Officials said Monday that all single-story residential properties were searched in the hardest-hit disaster area and that search teams have moved into multi-story residential buildings and businesses. Those are added to those already known: Donna Gomes, 71, a retired Maui Police Department public safety aide; Melva Benjamin, 71; Virginia Dofa, 90, and Alfredo Galinato, 79. Earlier two Lahaina men were named among those lost: Robert Dyckman, 74; and musician Buddy Jantoc, 79, who had toured with Santan.
Maui officials emphasize that officials are striving to move forward “with the utmost sensitivity and respect for those who are grieving.” Police say another 22 people have been identified but family members had not yet been located or notified.
As of the latest assessment, 2,500 structures were damaged or destroyed and 2,170 acres in Lahaina have burned as a result of the fires, according to the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA, who have estimated that the cost of rebuilding Lahaina will total at least $5.52 billion. An estimated 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential. As of Tuesday, Maui County reported 100% of the single-family residential homes in the most devastated 3.5-mile core of Lahaina had been searched.
Bissen says 341 emergency personnel with 50 specially trained dogs are searching the area. On Monday, officials estimated they were joined by 270 people from the American Red Cross and 399 from the Hawai‘i National Guard and that the FEMA team now totals close to 1,000. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier asked for relatives of those missing to provide DNA swabs at the Family Assistance Center to identify those left behind by the fast-moving fires decimated the area.
Green says 990 people are housed; 414 hotel rooms are fill and another 500 staying in airbnb sites. Green says he expects crews will get through 85% of the most critical area by next week, but the last 15% that includes three-and-four-story buildings will require special equipment and more time.
Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya appeared at the public briefing for the first time on Wednesday afternoon and defended the agency’s choice to not use the sirens when firefighters reported that “their crews were being overrun and so at that point we sent out evacuation notices.” Survivors have said they received no warning of the fast-moving flames or that they should evacuate, leaving many unable to escape.
On Thursday afternoon, Maui Mayor Bissen announced that he has accepted Andaya’s resignation, effective immediately. Bissen says Andaya cited health reasons. Bissen says he will place someone in the position swiftly.
On Wednesday, Andaya’s explanation of the reason for not using the sirens ignited more outrage: “The counties of Hawai‘i will tell you that sirens have not been used for brushfires,” Andaya said. Instead, he says, the agency relied on emergency alert systems that notify people through their cell phones and television and radio announcements. He said he was on O‘ahu for a conference when the fire began, but that the team acted appropriately.
Andaya said people in the community expect the sirens for tsunami alerts, so they would generally head to higher ground, which would not have spared them from the speeding fire. “So even if we sounded the sirens, we would not have saved those people on the mountain side,” he said.
Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez announced her office will hire a third-party private organization to conduct a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and policies in place leading up to, during and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawai‘i Island this week. “This will be an impartial, independent review,” Lopez said in a statement Aug. 17. She said the outside review will ensure accountability and transparency and reassure the people of Hawai‘i that all the facts will be uncovered.
Lopez says the review will help improve emergency preparedness. “We intend to look at this critical incident to facilitate any necessary corrective action and to advance future emergency preparedness,” she said. Green had called for the review.
A new online centralized hub called Maui Nui Strong, mauinuistrong.info, designed to respond to the impacts of the Lahaina and Kula wildfire disaster was launched. The County of Maui site offers information on how to donate, volunteer, offer services and look for support. It is intended to work with multiple county departments, nonprofits and grassroots efforts to connect people to resources and services.
On Wednesday, FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell announced that Biden authorized the federal cost share to be increased for Hawai‘i. She said additional disaster assistance will supplement what was already being made available to the state.
And FEMA also opened a joint Disaster Recovery Center Wednesday at the UH Maui College, located at 310 W. Ka‘ahumanu Avenue, Kahului, Hawai‘i. Survivors can speak to FEMA specialists, get assistance registering for disaster assistance, get in touch with voluntary organizations and have access to other federal and state resources from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.
Criswell urges those displaced to register to receive a $700 per household payment for immediate needs. In a Monday update, FEMA officials said that 3,400 people have registered, 2,700 households have received immediate aid totaling $8.2 million, That includes $3.4 million in initial rental assistance.
As of Sunday, Maui County estimated the Lahaina fire as 90% contained within a perimeter but still burning. In Upcountry/Kula, Maui County determined two fires in Kula and Olinda had different origins.
The Olinda fire the fire is 85% contained and burned an estimated 1,081 acres. Kula fire was 85% contained after burning 202 acres. The Pūlehu/Kīhei fire remained 100% contained Sunday, although hot spots in gulches and other hard-to-reach places mean that flare-ups can continue.
A fire is declared extinguished when crews believe nothing is left burning. The Pu‘uokoli‘i/Ka‘anapali fire (first reported Friday) covered an acre and was extinguished.
Maui Mayor Bissen says people in the affected area won’t have to pay property taxes for buildings or land. If they already paid, the tax will be refunded to help with recover. He says he will hold a community meeting in West Maui soon.
Maui police are restricting access into Lahaina, but Tuesday Gov. Green ordered the Lahaina Bypass Road open at 6 p.m to residents, first responders and workers until 6 a.m. Wednesday. Green says after that, the road will open daily from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily.
Officials say that access emergency crews are continuing search and rescue efforts and that everyone is encouraged to wear N95 masks and gloves in the area. The highway is open for vehicles leaving Lahaina, according to Maui County.
However, the impact zone of historic Lahaina town will remain restricted for safety concerns. The Pacific Disaster Center/FEMA damage assessment says potential needs will include sheltering 4,500 people, providing 3,560 gallons of water each day and 9,000 ready-to-eat meals.
The American Red Cross said over the weekend that the organization shift most residents out of group emergency shelters and into hotel rooms by next week. Vice President for Disaster Operations Brad Kieserman estimates that survivors can expect ot remain in hotel rooms 7 to 8 months: “We will be able to keep folks in hotels for as long as it takes.”
Maui County reported 1,800 people sheltered at Maui hotels: Hyatt Regency Maui; Outrigger Ka‘anapali Beach Resort; Royal Lahaina, Honua Kai Outrigger, Maui Seaside and Westin Maui.
Criswell was among several top administrators in Hawai‘i to assess and respond along with hundreds of staff from across federal agencies who have been sent to assist. Those federal helpers include the Department of Defense, the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Department of Health & Human Services joining responders since the wildfires began.
County officials say some power was restored to all but 1,800 of the 12,400 who lost power in Lahaina. That is in addition to the 2,000 homes and businesses that were destroyed in Lahaina.
And 50 homes in Kula also remained without power as of Monday. For those in Lahaina and Upper Kula with access to water in the affected areas, the Maui Department of Water is advising people to not drink tap water even if they boil it. The county sent out the alert until further notice and has set up water distribution sites.
It advised only bottled water for drinking, brushing teeth, making ice and preparing food until further notice. Water officials say the water could cause illness because it may have become contaminated as a result of the devastation. Some cell phone service was available in West Maui.
Officials urge everyone to text instead of talk to share the bandwidth available. Hawaiian Telcom says customers in Lahaina, Napili, and Kā‘anapali can request to have calls to their Hawaiian Telcom landline numbers forwarded for free to another phone number and is coordinating with government officials to provide community phone and wifi service to emergency shelters. Those affected can call a new toll-free number created to assist Maui residents: (808) 643-MAUI (6284). AccuWeather provided a preliminary estimate of the damage and economic loss from the devastating Maui wildfires at $8–$10 billion.
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and fiancée Lauren Sánchez announced a pledge of $100 million to help Maui recover. On Instagram, she wrote: “Jeff and I are heartbroken by what’s happening on Maui. We are thinking of all the families that have lost so much and a community that has been left devastated.”
She says the Maui fund will be used for both immediate needs and longer-term rebuilding “and over the coming years as the continuing needs reveal themselves.” Bezos is listed as owner of a 14-acre property at La Perouse Bay in South Maui.
Green said this is the deadliest disaster in Hawai‘i state history, and vowed to help Maui recover. “It will be a tremendous effort, but we will come together as a community and begin working toward rebuilding from this tragedy,” he said in a statement.
Disaster assistance is now available for individuals and households through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Those impacted by the Maui wildfires should apply.
Assistance includes funds for temporary housing, occupied-home repairs, hazard mitigation, uninsured expenses and serious needs. Applicants can apply at fema.gov.
Officials continue to urge visitors to leave the island and to cancel any upcoming trips to West Maui to preserve resources for Maui residents. West Maui hotels are not accepting bookings at this time. They are housing their employees and families as well as evacuees and first responders. Green and Bissen emphasize that the rest of Maui, and the rest of the state, is open to visitors.
Homeowners are also being asked to house the thousands of residents who have lost their homes. State officials estimate 50,000 visitors left on flights departing Maui in the three days after the wildfires.
The Assistance Center at the Hawai‘i Convention Center was relocated to the Ke‘ehi Lagoon Memorial at 2685 N. Nimitz Highway in Honolulu. Shuttles offering free transportation from the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport to Ke‘ehi Lagoon Memorial will be running throughout the day and can be found outside of baggage claim 9 and baggage claim 20 at the airport. Those on O‘ahu can drop off toiletries, diapers, formula, toys, clothing, bedding, household goods and nonperishable food at the Hawai‘i State Capitol, 415 S. Beretania St., between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, and Friday, Aug. 11.
Please do not bring bottled water. The Hawai‘i Chamber of Commerce Foundation and the Chamber of Commerce Hawai‘i have established a Business Relief Fund to benefit Hawai‘i businesses seeking assistance to recover and rebuild from the wildfires. Donations can be made online or by check made payable to “Hawai‘i Chamber of Commerce Foundation Relief Account” and mailed to 733 Bishop St., Suite 1200, Honolulu, HI 96813. Find more resources from the Chamber of Commerce at cochawaii.org/wildfire-resources.
The Maui Strong Fund was created to provide community resilience with resources for disaster preparedness, response, and recovery. The fund is currently being used to support communities affected by the wildfires on Maui.
The Maui Mutual Aid Fund is a group of volunteers who are collecting money and donations to support those affected by the wildfires. Check their social media pages to see what they need.
They’re also accepting volunteers. Maui United Way is collecting donations to aid those displaced by the wildfires. Hawai‘i Life is matching the first $50K of its Hawai‘i Life Charitable Fund with proceeds going to the Hawai‘i Community Foundation.
More organizations to support and resources are also listed. Maui and Hawaii Island residents who need disaster assistance should call 1-800-621-FEMA (1-800-621-3362). Maui residents can tune in to KAOI 1110 AM/95.1 FM and KPOA 93.5 FM for disaster response information.

Even with a record of 89 fatalities, public told to expect more In announcing the death toll in Maui's devastating fires has risen from 80 to 89 in the span of a day, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said on Saturday that the number would continue to rise.
"There are 89 fatalities that have been measured," he said at a news conference. "It’s going to continue to rise. We want to brace people for that."
Search and recovery crews were continuing to comb through fire-scorched communities, including historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday. Norwegian donates $50K, will redirect cruise stops to Hilo Norwegian Cruise Line is donating $50,000 to help with the fires in Maui, the company said Saturday. "We are deeply saddened to hear about the wildfires currently impacting the town of Lahaina in Maui.
We have a very special relationship with the people and islands of Hawaii, as we sail to the beautiful state year-round," the cruise liner said. "It is a magical destination and one that is highly sought out by our guests for its natural beauty, culture and unparalleled experiences."
Cruises with stops in Maui will be redirected to Hilo with an additional overnight stay in Nawiliwili, Kauai for itineraries beginning Aug. 12, 2023, through the end of the month. Norwegian has also dedicated a team aboard its ship Pride of America to begin collecting items including clothing, diapers and towels.
The donations will be given to the Hawaii Community Foundation. On Friday, Metallica's nonprofit All Within My Hands also donated $200,000 to the foundation. "With strong ties to the Hawaiian Islands, the All Within My Hands board voted swiftly to approve a $200,000 grant for the Maui Strong Fund established through the Hawai’i Community Foundation (HCF)," a news release states.
Police shut down access to Lahaina at Maalaea checkpoint Police have shut down access to Lahaina at the Maalaea checkpoint. The checkpoint was open for approximately 90 minutes before the closure as some drivers spent more than 15 hours in line waiting, since Friday, to get in to Lahaina today.
Police told NBC news there was now too much traffic backed up on the road and conditions were dangerous. Frustrated drivers said police were now directing them to travel to Lahaina via the "back way," around the northern tip of the island.
Drivers said the northern route narrows to just one lane in spots. Too early to estimate rebuilding costs, FEMA says FEMA said Saturday afternoon that it was too early to estimate rebuilding costs in the wake of the Lahaina wildfires.
"FEMA has not estimated any costs, as they are still in the active response and recovery phases," an agency spokesperson told NBC News. Earlier in the day, Maui County had posted a graphic on Facebook citing the Pacific Disaster Center and Federal Emergency Management Agency and a figure of an estimated $5.52 billion. FEMA noted that that figure was listed as “capital exposed,” which, FEMA said, is not a measure of rebuilding costs.

LAHAINA (HawaiiNewsNow) - Loved ones are mourning the loss of a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire. The four were identified as Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, their daughter Salote Takafua, and her son, Tony Takafua. They were found Thursday in a burned-out car near their home. The family had been longtime Lahaina residents living just beneath the Lahainaluna School. Dozens have been killed in the wildfire — all in Lahaina.
Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

Lahaina resident Cole Millington, his dog and a go bag at his side, was already behind the wheel of his truck late Tuesday afternoon when an emergency alert appeared on his phone.
“There wasn’t really an evacuation notice for us,” Millington said. The real warning, he said, came from the “huge plume of black smoke” in the sky over Lahaina. Millington and his roommates had seen enough.
They fled as wildfires began to scorch large swaths of the Hawaiian island of Maui, killing at least 93 people and destroying Millington’s home among hundreds of other structures. In fact, the state’s vaunted integrated outdoor siren warning system – the largest in the world, with about 400 alarms – was not activated during the fires, according to Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub.
On Maui, the second largest island in the Hawaiian archipelago, there are 80 outdoor sirens to alert residents to tsunamis and other natural disasters. They sat silent as people fled for their lives.
“Nobody at the state and nobody at the county attempted to activate those sirens based on our records,” Weintraub said in an interview. The layers of the emergency warning system that were activated included mobile phone alerts and messages on televisions and radio stations, Weintraub said.
“On my cell phone, we had warnings of strong winds and possible fires,” said Allen Vu, a Lahaina resident whose home was lost in the fire, along with the restaurant where he worked. Vu and Millington are among the residents of Maui questioning the effectiveness of the emergency warning system employed as the wind-whipped fires spread rapidly across Lahaina and other parts on Tuesday.
It would become the deadliest natural disaster in the state’s history. Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez will lead a comprehensive review of the emergency response with the goal of “understanding the decisions that were made before and during the wildfires,” her office said in a statement. Rep. Jill Tokuda, a Democrat, said the state “underestimated the lethality, the quickness of fire” and that the redundancies in the emergency alert system failed.
Hawaii residents have long been accustomed to the monthly tests of the outdoor siren warning system. While Maui’s warning sirens were not activated, emergency communications with residents were largely limited to mobile phones and broadcasters at a time when most power and cell service was already cut.
“We don’t see any indications that Maui did anything wrong,” Weintraub said. “Maui County faced a challenging, rapidly changing situation, and I think they did everything possible to save lives. And they still are,” he added.
“Clearly more work needs to be done to understand the science of wildfires, how they spread and what can be done to improve detection, alert, and warning systems,” he told CNN via email. The fire spread with such speed that many people left their homes immediately with little notice from authorities, Maui County Fire Chief Brad Ventura said.
It was “nearly impossible” for emergency management officials to make timely evacuation notifications, he said. “What we experienced was such a fast-moving fire through the neighborhood that the initial neighborhood that caught fire, they were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice,” Ventura said. Fueled by a combination of strong winds and dry conditions – and complicated by the island’s geography – the blaze virtually destroyed the tourist and economic hub of Lahaina and left authorities searching frantically for the missing.
Gov. Josh Green said the death toll could climb. It is unclear how many victims could still be in the charred ruins of what was once a whaling port and fishing town on the west coast of Maui. Some fatalities occurred “out in the open as people tried to escape the fire,” the governor said.
As the fires spread on Tuesday, power and most communication – including 911 and cell phone service – were cut off. Communication was still compromised Saturday due to severed lines.
Many people reported not hearing from their loved ones in days. Officials resorted to updating the public via radio stations, as well as posts on the county’s website and social media pages. Despite warnings, residents and authorities seem to have been taken by surprise.
“We had a few days lead time about the weather conditions,” said Clay Trauernicht, an assistant specialist who studies tropical fire at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. “Any fires that develop will likely spread rapidly,” the warning said.
May Wedelin-Lee, who also lost her home in Lahaina, said the wind shifted and smoke and flames overtook her community so quickly early Tuesday afternoon that people had less than 10 minutes to prepare. “People were crying on the side of the road and begging,” said Wedelin-Lee, a 20-year resident of Maui.
“Maui Fire Department declared the Lahaina brush fire 100% contained shortly before 9 a.m. today,” the county said on Facebook Tuesday. “Kula Fire Update No. 2 at 10:50 a.m.:
Firefighter crews remain on scene of a brush fire that was reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road in Kula and led to evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas,” the county said. “With the potential risk of escalating conditions from an Upcountry brush fire, the Fire Department is strongly advising residents of Piʻiholo and Olinda roads to proactively evacuate,” Maui County posted at 3:20 p.m.
Later, the county said the Lahaina fire had resurged. “An apparent flareup of the Lahaina fire forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass around 3:30 p.m.,” Maui County posted at 4:45 p.m. By 5:50 p.m. Tuesday, there were “multiple evacuations in place for Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires,” the county reported.
Hawaii officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires even as they acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate them, according to a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state was for the disaster. The state emergency management agency’s public resources webpage includes clear, bullet-point recommendations of what residents should do in a hurricane, tsunami, flash flood or earthquake. At the bottom of the page there are two short paragraphs about wildfires – with no similar advice on ways to stay safe.
In 2018, as Hurricane Lane approached Hawaii, bush fires scorched a total of 2,330 acres in Maui. The next year, fires in Maui consumed about 25,000 acres. The Maui fire is the nation’s deadliest since California’s Camp fire, which killed 85 people in November 2018.
Brock Long, who as former Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator from June 2017 to March 2019 coordinated the response to more than 100 wildfires, said the unpredictability of fires means decisions need to be made quickly. ‎Maui
photographer Rachel Zimmerman, who lost her home, described the chaos and uncertainty as the fires approached. “The wind is just howling.
We’re seeing roofs that are flying off,” she recalled. “And people are just kind of standing around in my condo complex, neighbors, looking: What do we do? We heard there was a complete gridlock and we weren’t going to be able to get out

UPDATE: 10:15 p.m. Maui County reported this evening the death toll is now 93 with two of them identified. “We want to brace people for that,” Green said at an afternoon news conference on Maui.
To stress the point, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said only 3% of the burned area of Lahaina has been searched. He asked for patience and stressed that it was going to take time to comb through the rubble of thousands of burned structures and get the full accounting of fatalities. Pelletier said two of the 89 victims have been identified so far, adding that identifying the dead is extremely challenging because “we pick up the remains and they fall apart.” He did not release the names of the two who had been identified. He said today was the first day cadaver-sniffing dogs were used and another 12 more are on the way to Maui.
Officials said the recovered remains so far were mostly from outside of the building rubble, and mainly in burned-out cars. U.S. Fire Administrator Lori Moore-Merrell said the investigation into the fire, and how rapidly it spread, was ongoing.
The new death toll surpassed the number of fatalities from the 2018 Camp Fire in Northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. A century earlier, the 1918 Cloquet Fire broke out in drought-stricken northern Minnesota and raced through a number of rural communities, destroying thousands of homes and killing hundreds. Green said the Maui fires “will certainly be the worst natural disaster that Hawaii ever faced.
An influx of members of the National Guard and active-duty U.S. military are set to assist in the government’s relief efforts. Brig. Gen. Steve Logan, commander of Hawaii National Guard, this morning was appointed by Green as dual-status commander, meaning he has control over both National Guard troops and active-duty members of the U.S. military responding to the Lahaina fire. Normally, the National Guard and active-duty members of the military operate under separate chains of command. Dual-status commanders were established shortly after Hurricane Katrina to efficiently combine the efforts of both forces.
Logan said that his forces will be used to support Maui Mayor Richar Bissen, Jr. and his administration. “Let me be clear about this, we are here in a support role. We’re here to support Mayor Bissen, his staff, and the rest of the county agencies, not to take charge, and not to take control,” he said.
This livestream video has ended. Watch a replay at the top of the page.

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — Parishioners mourned the dead and prayed for the missing Sunday in Hawaii churches as communities began looking ahead to a long recovery from last week’s wildfire that demolished a historic Maui town and killed more than 90 people.
Maria Lanakila Church in Lahaina was spared from the flames that wiped out most of the surrounding community, but with search-and-recovery efforts ongoing, its members attended Mass about 10 miles up the road, with the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, presiding. Taufa Samisoni said his uncle, aunt, cousin and the cousin’s 7-year-old son were found dead inside a burned car. Samisoni’s wife, Katalina, said the family would draw comfort from Silva’s reference to the Bible story of how Jesus’ disciple Peter walked on water and was saved from drowning. “If Peter can walk on water, yes we can.
We will get to the shore,” she said, her voice quivering. During the Mass, Silva read a message from Pope Francis, who said he was praying for those who lost loved ones, homes and livelihoods. He also conveyed prayers for first responders. Silva later told The Associated Press that the community is worried about its children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious. “The more they can be in a normal situation with their peers and learning and having fun, I think the better off they’ll be,” Silva said.
Meanwhile, Hawaii officials urged tourists to avoid traveling to Maui as many hotels prepared to house evacuees and first responders. About 46,000 residents and visitors have flown out of Kahului Airport in West Maui since the devastation in Lahaina became clear Wednesday, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. “In the weeks ahead, the collective resources and attention of the federal, state and county government, the West Maui community, and the travel industry must be focused on the recovery of residents who were forced to evacuate their homes and businesses,” the agency said in a statement late Saturday. Tourists are encouraged to visit Hawaii’s other islands.
Gov. Josh Green said 500 hotels rooms will be made available for locals who have been displaced. An additional 500 rooms will be set aside for workers from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Some hotels will carry on with normal business to help preserve jobs and sustain the local economy, Green said. The state wants to work with Airbnb to make sure that rental homes can be made available for locals. Green hopes that the company will be able to provide three- to nine-month rentals for those who have lost homes.
As the death toll around Lahaina climbed to 96 authorities warned that the effort to find and identify the dead was still in its early stages. The blaze is already the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.
Crews with cadaver dogs have covered just 3% of the search area, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said Saturday. Lylas Kanemoto is awaiting word about the fate of her cousin, Glen Yoshino. “I’m afraid he is gone because we have not heard from him, and he would’ve found a way to contact family. We are hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst,” Kanemoto said Sunday.
Family members will submit DNA to help identify any remains. The family was grieving the death of four other relatives.
The remains of Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, their daughter, Salote Takafua, and her son, Tony Takafua, were found inside a charred car. “At least we have closure for them, but the loss and heartbreak is unbearable for many,” Kanemoto said.
As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center. J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali, is still making breakfast, lunch and dinner on a daily basis. But instead of serving hotel guests, he’s been feeding the roughly 200 hotel employees and their family members who have been living there since Tuesday’s fire devastated the Lahaina community just south of the resort. His home and that of his father were spared. But his girlfriend, two young daughters, father and another local are all staying in a hotel room together, as it is safer than Lahaina, which is covered in toxic debris.
Maui water officials warned Lahaina and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure. “Everybody has their story, and everybody lost something. So everybody can be there for each other, and they understand what’s going on in each other’s lives,” he said of his co-workers at the hotel.
Hawaii Island Mayor Mitch Roth warned that the recovery effort will be a “marathon not a sprint.” In order to keep the effort “coordinated and thoughtful,” Roth urged Hawaii residents to contribute money to established nonprofits and hold off on donating physical items because there is not yet a reliable distribution system in place. The latest death toll surpassed that of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise.
The cause of the wildfires is under investigation. The fires are Hawaii’s deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people. An even deadlier tsunami in 1946 killed more than 150 on the Big Island. Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the flames on Maui raced through parched brush covering the island.
The most serious blaze swept into Lahaina on Tuesday and destroyed nearly every building in the town of 13,000, leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes. Elsewhere on Maui, at least two other fires have been burning: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. No fatalities have been reported from those blazes. Weber reported from Los Angeles.
Associated Press journalists Haven Daley in Kalapua, Hawaii; Ty O’Neil in Lahaina, Hawaii; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; Sara Cline in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Pat Eaton-Robb in Hartford, Connecticut, contributed to this report. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations.
See more about AP’s climate initiative here. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

Blankets, pillows car seats, walkers, all kinds of items have been donated over the past few days, and now they're waiting to be delivered.

*Since this blog was first published, the death toll has continued to climb. As of August 25, the reported number of deaths is 115.
According to NFPA research, this week’s Lahaina Fire death toll, now at 80 people, is among the top ten deadliest wildfires on record since 1871. Pauley’s statements are reinforced in additional facts from NFPA research including that four of the deadliest wildfires in the U.S., including this one, have occurred since 2017. Today there are nearly 45 million homes in the wildland/urban interface (WUI).
According to the National Interagency Fire Center, some 71.8 million properties in the U.S. are at some level of risk from wildfire. Each year some of the largest-loss fires occur in the WUI.
In the past five years, wildfires have destroyed nearly 63,000 structures in the U.S., the majority of which were homes. Record high temperatures, serious drought conditions, and high winds from severe weather events such as thunder and lightning storms have been blamed for the recent increase in wildfire activity in Canada, Europe, and in high-risk areas across the U.S. Officials predict more wildfires will erupt in the coming months due to continued dry heat and increased storm activity, prompting residents to look for information on what they can do to reduce their risk before a wildfire. In a media advisory this week, NFPA provided resources for media and the public on various aspects for the wildfire problem.
Outthink Wildfire™ , a comprehensive strategy that lays out five key policy changes that need to be made at the federal, state, and local levels and if followed, will end the destruction of communities by wildfire over the next 30 years. Firewise USA® recognition program that empowers residents to work collaboratively in reducing wildfire risks. For additional resources and information, and to learn more about how to keep families safe and reduce homeowners’ risk for wildfire damage, please visit NFPA’s wildfire webpage. For those seeking information on federal disaster assistance, please visit FEMA.

Vixay Phonxaylinkham was meant to be having a relaxing sun-soaked holiday with his family as he drove down Front Street in Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii. But as lightning-quick wildfires swept into town, whipped up by the tail end of a hurricane, vehicles around him began exploding from the heat.
Trapped in a rental car with his wife and children, he and his loved ones faced the prospect of being burned alive or abandoning their vehicle. As the flames, which as of Saturday morning have killed 67 people with scores still unaccounted for, rose higher and debris rained down, the family jumped out and joined scores of others in sprinting for the only potential place of safety: the Pacific Ocean. He and his family were forced to hold onto pieces of wood to stay afloat as the tide came in.
“We floated around four hours,” Mr Phonxaylinkham, from Fresno, California, said from the airport while awaiting a flight off the island, the sky behind him still pitch black from the wildfire smoke. “It was a vacation that turned into a nightmare.
I heard explosions everywhere, I heard screaming, and some people didn’t make it. I feel so sad,” he said. Mr Phonxaylinkham was caught off-guard, like so many, by the extreme pace of the fires fuelled by “red-flag” conditions.
A dry summer and unusually strong winds from a passing hurricane, Dora – which meteorologists had expected to remain a harmless “fish storm” 500 miles to the south – meant regular wildfires took Maui by surprise, racing through parched brush covering the island and then flattening homes and anything else that lay in its path. Despite the speed of the fires, there are also now question marks over why Hawaii’s famous emergency warning system, with about 400 sirens positioned across the island chain, didn’t alert them as fires raced toward their homes. Many of Lahaina’s survivors said they didn’t hear any sirens until the smoke and flames were upon them.
Instead, the county used emergency alerts sent to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations but, with power down, these did not reach many in time. Among those in the dark was tourist
Tee Dang who was also in a rental car with her three children and husband on Lahaina’s Front Street when she saw the flames closing in. Grabbing their food, water and phones, they ran for the waves and saw others making the same beeline. With their children – aged five, 13 and 20 – they at first stayed close to shore. But, as evening approached, and the tide rose, the water started sweeping her into the rock wall of the harbour, severely cutting her leg.
When cars started exploding, they were forced to move into deeper water to seek shelter from the shooting debris. After four hours in the water, they were eventually rescued by a firefighter who directed them through the burning streets. But their ordeal was not yet over.
After reaching shelter at the Maui Prep School, the family was forced to move twice more, including once because one shelter came under threat from flames. But they were the lucky ones.
Tiffany Kidder Winn recounted the gruesome sight when she arrived in Lahaina on Wednesday to survey the damage to her gift store, Whalers Locker on Front Street. Within minutes, she came across a line of burnt-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside. “It looked like they were trying to get out but were stuck in traffic,” she said.
In another shocking encounter reminiscent of Pompeii volcano victims, she later spotted a body leaning against a seawall. He had managed to climb over but clearly died before he could reach the ocean while escaping flames, she said, breaking down in tears.
Indeed, the death toll is expected to rise. Of the three fires that broke out on Maui, hardest hit was Lahaina, home to 12,000 residents, a historic town and a popular destination for tourists with two million visitors per year. Thousands were evacuated from the western side of Maui, which has a year-round population of about 166,000, with some taking shelter on the island or on the neighbouring island of Oahu. Tourists camped in Kahului Airport, waiting for flights back home.
At a news conference on Thursday, Josh Green, Hawaii’s governor, said the fires were “the largest natural disaster in Hawaii’s state history”. “We will continue to see loss of life,” said Mr Green.
President Joe Biden offered condolences and pledged federal disaster aid to ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately”. “Our prayers are with the people of Hawaii. But not just our prayers.
Every asset we have will be available to them,” he said. From Greece to Canada, scenes of fiery devastation have become all too familiar elsewhere in the world this summer, with wildfires, often caused by record-setting heat, forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. “It’s very strange to hear about severe wildfires in Hawaii – a wet, tropical island – but strange events are becoming more common with climate change,” Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist and lecturer at the Yale School of the Environment, told CNN.
“Combining abundant fuels with heat, drought, and strong wind gusts is a perfect recipe for out-of-control fires,” said Dr Marlon. Officials are still trying to get a handle on the fires’ progress but know they’re not fully contained, Adam Weintraub, Hawaii emergency management spokesman, said.
Among the incoming assistance were cadaver dogs from California and Washington that would aid search and rescue teams combing through the ruins, officials said. Once that is done, it will be a very long road to recovery with more than 1,700 buildings and billions of dollars in property destroyed.
Richard Bissen, Maui mayor, said that Lahaina, a former whaling hub that holds deep cultural significance for Hawaiians as the former royal residence of King Kamehameha, who unified Hawaii under a single kingdom, has been totally wiped out. “It’s all gone.
None of it’s there. It’s all burnt to the ground,” he said. Beyond buildings and human life, one symbolic casualty is Lahaina’s 150-year-old banyan tree – said to be the oldest in the United States – which shaded townsfolk and tourists alike from the Hawaiian sun, in a place once called “Lele”, the Hawaiian word for “relentless sun”.
While many of its aerial roots were charred, locals expressed hope it could survive, offering a glimmer of hope to the stricken island. It is, she added, a “diamond in the rough of hope”.

Cochran and her neighbor survived the inferno in Lahaina by spending more than five hours in the water next to a rock wall at the edge of town. Another of their neighbors, an 86-year-old man who for a time survived nearby, did not live through the night, she said.
The fire that took the town was swift and brutal. Early that morning, Cochran had seen reports of a wildfire nearby, but that wasn’t unusual for Lahaina, where she has lived for seven years. In the afternoon, the wind whipped up, so strong that Cochran began taking videos of the flying leaves.
Cochran, a Maryland native who works as a training manager for an ocean conservation nonprofit, went to take a shower. When she dressed and went outside at around 4 p.m., the smoke was growing thicker and she began to hear fire alarms in nearby buildings going off. There was no text message telling her to evacuate, no emergency siren, she said.
Then, to her shock, she saw flames in a parking lot about a block away. She ran to her apartment to grab a few essentials and jumped into her car. She turned toward the water, hoping to drive out of town to safety, but found the road blocked by abandoned cars.
She picked up a tourist who later decided to leave her car because he wanted to head in a different direction than Cochran did; she never saw him again. When the building next to her car began to burn, she said, she got out and headed for the water.
She found two of her neighbors, a middle-aged woman named Edna and an 86-year-old man named Freeman, who had difficulty walking. They all went over the barrier wall, down to the hulking black rocks below to escape the flames.
They spent hours in the water, occasionally scrambling onto the rocks, trying to stay away from flying embers and noxious fumes, but also moving closer to the flames when they began to feel dangerously cold. Cochran saw people grab debris and float off into deeper waters, which horrified her: She works on the ocean and knows the dangers of currents and hypothermia. The worst part of the ordeal, she said, came when cars along the shoreline began to explode, sending toxic fumes and intense heat rolling toward the water. That’s when Cochran and Edna felt near collapse.
The women held each other as they shook and tried to stay awake, Cochran said. They talked about their families and promised each other they’d make it.
At one point, Cochran said, she called out to Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach, and asked how he was. He just smiled and made a shaka gesture with his hand — middle fingers down, thumb and little finger out — to indicate he was all right, even though Cochran knew he was suffering. Later, she said, she saw him slumped against the wall, unmoving.
She believes he succumbed to the fumes. “I just ache for his family,” Cochran said.
She and several dozen other people were rescued from the water by firefighters around midnight and she has spent the last few nights at shelters. Her body is covered with bruises and lacerations; her feet and face are burned.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - The Hawaii Tourism Authority is urging visitors to reschedule upcoming travel to fire-ravaged West Maui. Since Wednesday, more than 46,000 people have flown out of Kahului Airport. The Hawaii Tourism Authority says visitors who are planning travel to West Maui within the next several months should reschedule their travel plans or consider a different destination. “In the weeks ahead, the collective resources and attention of the federal, state and county government, the West Maui community, and the travel industry must be focused on the recovery of residents who were forced to evacuate their homes and businesses,” HTA said. And the governor has said about 1,000 rooms in the area have been secured for evacuees and first responders. It was not immediately clear when evacuees would be moving in. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

After seeing the flames on Tuesday, the Lahaina resident and his wife grabbed five dogs they were taking care of and followed traffic heading south until they were trapped by closed roads.
During that time, Cicchino believed they were going to die, so he called his mom for a final goodbye. Moments after that call, phone service dropped, and Cicchino lost all contact for several hours.
Meanwhile, his mom, Susan Ramos, had immediately called the US Coast Guard to alert them of the fire and her son’s location. While waiting on his own rescue, Cicchino was shepherding others to safety as his home of 16 years was consumed by fire.
“I remember jumping the seawall and putting our shirts into the water to wrap around our faces and protect us from the smoke. Out in the ocean we kept getting hit by the embers, so we would hide underwater,” Cicchino said.
Nearly 60 other people were down in the water, filled with panic as they heard cars exploding nearby. Despite his eyes being nearly swollen shut by smoke, Cicchino left his wife in a safe space to go look for the dogs that got separated from them along the way.
“While running down Front Street and calling out for the dogs, I heard people begging for help. I saw a couple dead bodies and checked their chests to see if they were breathing, but then had to move on to other people I could actually help,” Cicchino told CNN. As Cicchino was moving people to safety by rocks right off the water, the Coast Guard contacted him asking for a headcount for life vests. The Coast Guard boat couldn’t make it past a reef, leaving two members with surfboards to attempt the rescue of dozens, including children, the elderly and the injured.
The group panicked at the thought of having to go one by one and risk being separated from their loved ones. Eventually, firefighters made it to the scene, with Cicchino leading people 10 at a time to their rescue. On the last trip, Cicchino, his wife and two of the dogs settled in the bed of an emergency vehicle as firefighters sped off to a local triage center. Cicchino was hooked up to oxygen and was coughing up soot from smoke inhalation.
As things calmed down, he was able to get back in touch with his mom. They cried together on the phone.
“All this time my mom thought I was dead,” Cicchino said. He was reunited with his family at a nearby shelter just a few hours later. “I ran toward my mom and broke down as she hugged me,” he said. Cicchino said he still has friends who are missing and that so far, four of the five dogs he evacuated with have been reunited with their owners.

Dr Rory Hadden, senior lecturer and expert in fire investigations at the University of Edinburgh, told BBC Verify that it is common for trees to remain standing even after severe wildfires because "burning through a large piece of wood takes a long time", "thick pieces of wood are usually not able to sustain burning on their own" and "the high moisture content of trees will also make them hard to burn".

CLAIM: Scenes from the Maui wildfires show cars and buildings badly damaged near trees and poles that remain standing, suggesting a wildfire wasn’t the cause.
AP’S ASSESSMENT: False.
Such observations from the fires on the Hawaiian island are not unusual, experts say. Wildfires often spew fiery embers that hit larger targets like homes and cars. Trees that catch fire are typically not completely vaporized, in part because of their water content. THE FACTS:
Amid the devastating wildfires in Maui, some social media users are advancing claims that visuals of the aftermath suggest a fire isn’t actually to blame. But experts say it is not unusual to see such damage after a wildfire. “It’s actually very common that wildfires will burn out structures and vehicles but leave surrounding trees, utility poles, and other vegetation unscathed,” said Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab.
Wildfires are often spread to homes and other structures via embers — small, burning particles that break from vegetation or structures, Gollner told The Associated Press in an email. He pointed to a 2008 federal report about a fire in Lake Arrowhead, California, that found that a wildfire initially showered a neighborhood with fiery debris, igniting several homes and vegetation. But it was the subsequent spread between houses that accounted for most of the residential damage, the report said, not the wildfire itself engulfing homes.
Photos in the report show homes destroyed amid trees that remain standing. Dunn provided photos from a 2020 fire in southern Oregon in which homes were destroyed while neighboring trees remained upright, despite some charring. While small pieces of wood burn easily, the sheer size of large trees, some protection from their bark and the water they contain make it so they don’t simply vaporize during a fire, he said — which explains the fact that some salvage trees for lumber after a forest fire.
He added that structures, decks and fences are susceptible to accumulating flying embers, making them particularly vulnerable — whereas the wind may blow such embers past trees and poles. The Maui wildfires are the deadliest in the U.S. in more than a century, responsible for a death toll of at least 96. Officials have not yet determined the cause of the fires, which were fueled by dry weather and the winds of a nearby hurricane.
This is part of AP’s effort to address widely shared misinformation, including work with outside companies and organizations to add factual context to misleading content that is circulating online. Learn more about fact-checking at AP.

AP’S ASSESSMENT: False.
Both images are unrelated to the fires on Maui. One photo shows the launch of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from a California military base in May 2018. The other shows a flare from a controlled burn at an oil refinery in Ohio the same year.
THE FACTS: As images and videos showing the wreckage caused by the deadly wildfires spread on social media, some users are sharing unrelated photos in an effort to spread a baseless conspiracy theory that the cause was nefarious.
In one image, a long beam of light extends from the ground into a bright blue sky. But the image has nothing to do with the Maui wildfires.
It was taken during the May 22, 2018 launch of a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket in California at what was then called Vandenberg Air Force Base. The photo was originally posted on SpaceX’s Instagram account. Other posts are misrepresenting a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it.
In an Instagram video, a man claims that the image “shows a laser beam coming out of the sky directly targeting the city.” He then falsely claims the Maui wildfires are linked to a long-running conspiracy theory about a weaponized government weather modification program. “END TIME – The fire damage in Hawaii leaves open the question of whether the fire was caused by a deliberate nature.
In other words; was the cause a energy weapon?” reads a post on X, formerly known as Twitter, that also shared the image. But this photo isn’t related to the Maui wildfires either.
Instead, it shows a flare that resulted from a controlled burn at a Canton, Ohio, oil refinery on Jan. 16, 2018. The photo can be traced back to a Facebook comment that day on a post by The Canton Repository, a local paper, requesting that residents share images of the burn at the Marathon Petroleum refinery.
Travis Secrest responded with the image . Secrest confirmed to The Associated Press that he took the photo in January 2018 from Baum Road in Canton Township, and said that the reality wasn’t “as dramatic” as the photo.
Secrest, who grew up in the area, said he initially thought the flare was from a fire. After he drove to a better vantage point he could see the flare was coming from the refinery.
The Maui wildfires, which have killed at least 67 people as of Friday, are the deadliest in the U.S. since the 2018 Camp Fire in California. Officials said they haven’t started investigating the immediate cause of the fires , but they have been fanned by strong winds from a passing hurricane and fueled by a dry summer.

Le gouverneur de l’archipel a prévenu qu’il s’attendait à retrouver «10 à 20» cadavres par jour alors que les recherches devraient encore durer une dizaine de jours.
Le bilan humain des incendies à Hawaï atteint désormais 99 morts et «pourrait doubler» cette semaine, ont averti lundi 14 août les autorités de l’archipel, critiquées pour leur gestion du drame. «Au cours des dix prochains jours, ce nombre pourrait doubler», a estimé le gouverneur de Hawaï, Josh Green, sur CNN, en annonçant la découverte de trois cadavres supplémentaires.
Ces incendies sont déjà les plus meurtriers en plus d'un siècle aux États-Unis.
Dans le monde, seuls les feux de forêt de 2009 en Australie (180 morts) et de 2018 en Grèce (plus de 100 morts) avaient fait un nombre plus important de victimes au XXIe siècle.
Les chiens renifleurs qui fouillent actuellement les décombres de la ville de Lahaina, quasiment rasée par les flammes, ont encore beaucoup de terrain à couvrir. «Ils trouveront probablement 10 à 20 personnes par jour jusqu'à ce qu'ils aient terminé», a averti Josh Green.
Selon lui, les opérations de recherche vont durer encore «probablement 10 jours» et le bilan final est à l'heure actuelle «impossible à deviner». La plupart des corps retrouvés jusqu'ici l'ont été près du front de mer ou dans l'océan, où des dizaines d'habitants se sont jetées pour échapper aux flammes, selon le gouverneur. «Nous sommes accablés par les circonstances du changement climatique et de la tragédie en même temps», a déploré Josh Green.
Dans cette ville historique de 12.000 habitants, ex-capitale du royaume d'Hawaï, le feu a été si intense qu'il a fait fondre le métal. Les cadavres sont méconnaissables et la police appelle les proches de personnes disparues à faire un test ADN, pour faciliter l'identification des victimes. Car jusqu'ici, seules trois victimes «ont pu être identifiées avec leurs empreintes», selon le chef de la police, John Pelletier.
Les autorités comptent restreindre l'accès à Lahaina pendant toutes les recherches, à cause de la présence potentielle de produits chimiques et par respect pour les morts.
«Je suis content que l'on vous rejette (...) parce que sinon vous auriez piétiné nos voisins décédés», a lancé le gouverneur à la presse lundi soir. Les autorités recensent encore 1.300 personnes disparues, selon le gouverneur.
Un chiffre qui baisse au fur et à mesure que les communications sont progressivement rétablies sur Maui et que les habitants arrivent à localiser leurs proches. Les circonstances de ces incendies fulgurants, dont la cause n'est pas encore connue, restent floues.
Ils ont pris la population par surprise. Cela nourrit le ressentiment des habitants, qui ne sont pas tous autorisés à regagner la zone autour de Lahaina, contrôlée par des blocages routiers. «Le manque de communication est abyssal, les gens sont très en colère et frustrés, et la situation ne fait qu'empirer», confie le pasteur Stephen Van Bueren, dont le temple a été détruit.
Lors des incendies, les alertes officielles à la télévision, la radio et sur les téléphones se sont révélées inutiles pour de nombreux résidents privés d'électricité ou de réseau. Les sirènes d'alarme sont, elles, restées muettes. Une enquête a été ouverte pour examiner la gestion de crise. «Nous pensons que les sirènes ont été essentiellement immobilisées par la chaleur extrême» qui régnait sur Maui, a fait savoirJosh Green.
Cette tragédie «n'aurait jamais dû arriver. Notre gouvernement n'était pas préparé», a dénoncé lundi Donald Trump sur le réseau Truth Social, en critiquant la gestion du «gouverneur» qui «ne veut rien faire d'autre que de blâmer le changement climatique».
Selon le New York Times, certains pompiers luttant contre le feu de Lahaina ont également été retardés par des bouches d'incendie à sec ou dont le débit était très faible. «Il y a eu un impact critique sur l'eau disponible» car le système d'eau était sursollicité, a reconnu lundi une responsable de l'administration américaine anti-incendies, Tonya Hoover. Le fournisseur d'électricité Hawaiian Electric est également visé par une plainte. Des habitants reprochent à l'entreprise d'avoir «maintenu ses lignes électriques sous tension de façon inexcusable alors que les prévisions annonçaient un risque élevé d'incendie» et des vents forts, nourris par un ouragan passant au sud-ouest de Maui, susceptible de faire tomber les poteaux électriques.
Les vents très violents et la sécheresse ont largement contribué à la propagation rapide des multiples feux subis par l'île la semaine dernière, et qui brûlent toujours malgré les efforts des pompiers pour les circonscrire. Ils surviennent au milieu d'un été marqué par des événements météorologiques extrêmes sur la planète, liés au réchauffement climatique selon les experts, dont une vague de chaleur intense dans le sud des États-Unis et des mégafeux de forêt au Canada.
Face à l'étendue des dégâts, le président américain Joe Biden a indiqué envisager de se rendre à Hawaï. La reconstruction, elle, sera longue. Rien que pour l'incendie de Lahaina, son coût est estimé à 5,52 milliards de dollars par les autorités fédérales.

If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.

WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) —
In the hours before a wildfire engulfed the town of Lahaina, Maui County officials failed to activate sirens that would have warned the entire population of the approaching flames and instead relied on a series of sometimes confusing social media posts that reached a much smaller audience. Power and cellular outages for residents further stymied communication efforts. Radio reports were scarce, some survivors reported, even as the blaze began to consume the town. Road blocks then forced fleeing drivers onto one narrow downtown street, creating a bottleneck that was quickly surrounded by flames on all sides.
At least 80 people have been confirmed dead so far. The silent sirens have raised questions about whether everything was done to alert the public in a state that possesses an elaborate emergency warning system for a variety of dangers including wars, volcanoes, hurricanes and wildfires.
Hector Bermudez left his apartment at Lahaina Shores shortly after 4:30 p.m. Tuesday after the smell of smoke woke him up from a nap. He asked his neighbor if he was also leaving.
His neighbor, who is about 70 and has difficulty walking, refused. Bermudez doesn’t know if he survived. Officials with Maui’s Emergency Management Agency did not immediately respond Friday to questions about sirens and other communications issues.
Hawaii’s Attorney General Anne Lopez said her office will be conducting a comprehensive review of decision-making and standing policies surrounding the wildfires. The Associated Press created a timeline of the wildfires, using information from multiple sources including the county’s announcements, state and local Emergency Management Alerts and interviews with officials and survivors. The timeline shows public updates on the fires were spotty and often vague, and much of the county’s attention was focused on another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula.
It shows no indication that county officials ever activated the region’s all-hazard siren system, and reveals other emergency alerts were scarce. In the hours before the wildfires began, however, warnings about high winds were frequent and widely disseminated by the county and other agencies. A hurricane passing far to the south was expected to bring gusts of up to 65 mph (105 kph), residents were told on Monday.
The Upcountry fire started first, reported not long after midnight on Tuesday, and the first evacuations near Kula followed. The fire near Lahaina started later, around 6:37 a.m. Tuesday.
Some homes in Lahaina’s most inland neighborhood were evacuated, but by 9:55 a.m. the county reported that the fire was fully contained.
Still, the announcement included another warning that high winds would remain a concern for the next 24 hours. The power also went out early that morning, leaving several thousand customers in the Lahaina/West Maui region and Upcountry without electricity.
Several downed power lines required repair. By 11 a.m., firefighting crews from several towns and the Hawaii Department of Lands had converged on the Upcountry fire, but wind gusts reaching 80 mph (129 kph) made conditions unsafe for helicopters. At 3:20 p.m., more Upcountry neighborhoods were evacuated.
The Lahaina fire, meanwhile, had escaped containment and forced the closure of the Lahaina Bypass road by 3:30 p.m. The announcement, however, didn’t make it into a county fire update until 4:45 p.m. and didn’t show up on the county Facebook page until nearly 5 p.m., when survivors say flames were surrounding the cars of families trapped downtown.
But while the Lahaina fire was spreading, Maui County and Hawaii Emergency Management Agency officials were making other urgent announcements — including a Facebook post about additional evacuations near the Upcountry fire and an announcement that the acting governor had issued an emergency proclamation. In the Upcountry evacuation Facebook post at 3:20 p.m., Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea shared an ominous warning.
“The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, it can be at your house,” Giesea said. Mike Cicchino lived below the Lahaina Bypass in one of Lahaina’s more inland neighborhoods.
He went to his house at 3:30 p.m. and minutes later realized his neighborhood was quickly being enveloped by flames. He yelled to the neighbor kids to get their mom and leave.
He ran inside to collect his wife and the dogs they were watching. Cicchino, along with others in the neighborhood, then jumped in their cars to leave.
He listened for announcements on his car radio, but said there was essentially no information. The government’s social media attention turned from Upcountry back to Lahaina at 4:29 p.m., when Hawaii EMA posted on X (formerly Twitter) that the local Maui EMA had announced an immediate evacuation for an inland subdivision in Lahaina.
Residents were directed to shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center on the north side of town. Many were already running from the flames.
Lynn Robison evacuated from her apartment near the waterfront’s Front Street at 4:33 p.m. “There was no warning.
There was absolutely none. Nobody came around.
We didn’t see a fire truck or anybody,” Robison said. Lana Vierra left her neighborhood about a mile (less than 2 kilometers) away around the same time. Her boyfriend had stopped by and told her he’d seen the approaching fire on the drive.
“He told me straight, ‘People are going to die in this town; you gotta get out,’” she recalled. There had been no sirens, no alerts on her cellphone, she said.
But access to the main highway — the only road leading in and out of Lahaina — was cut off by barricades set up by authorities. The roadblocks forced people directly into harm’s way, funneling cars onto Front Street. “All the locals were pigeonholed into Lahaina in that corner there, and I felt like the county put us into a death trap,” Cicchino said.
Nathan Baird and his family escaped by driving past a barricade, he told Canadian Broadcaster CBC Radio. Cicchino and his wife became trapped by walls of flame as Front Street burned.
They ran for the ocean, spending hours crouching behind the sea wall or treading water in the choppy waves, depending on which area felt safest as the ever-changing fire raged. At 5:20 p.m., Maui County shared another Lahaina fire update on Facebook: Evacuations in one subdivision were continuing, but access to the main highway was back open. The U.S. Coast Guard’s first notification about the fires was when the search and rescue command center in Honolulu received reports of people in the water near Lahaina at 5:45 p.m., said Capt. Aja Kirksy, commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu.
The boats were hard to see because of the smoke, but Cicchino and others used cellphones to flash lights at the vessels, guiding them in. Cicchino helped load children into the Coast Guard boats, and at one point loaned his cellphone — which had been stashed in his wife’s waterproof pouch — to a member of the guard so they could contact fire crews. He said the rescue took hours, and he and his wife were finally brought out of Lahaina around 1 a.m. Wednesday.
Maui County Facebook posts around 8:40 p.m. Tuesday urged residents in the surrounding area who weren’t impacted by the fires to shelter in place, and said smoke was forcing more road closures. A commenter pointed out the communication problems just before 9 p.m. “You do realize that all communication to Lahaina is cut off and nobody can get in touch with anyone on that side,” the commenter wrote.
Riley Curran, who fled his Lahaina home after climbing up a neighboring apartment building to get a better look at the fire, doesn’t think there is anything the county could have done. But Cicchino said it all felt like the county wasn’t prepared and government agencies weren’t communicating with each other.
The all-hazard sirens are tested each month to ensure they are in working order. During recent tests within two week of the fires they malfunctioned in three separate incidents in three counties. Maui’s siren tone was too short, so officials repeated the test later that day, successfully.
Karl Kim directs the National Disaster Preparedness Training Center, a University of Hawaii-based organization that develops training materials to help officials respond to natural disasters. Kim said it’s too soon to know exactly how the warning and alert system might have saved more lives in Lahaina, and noted that wildfires are often more challenging to manage than volcanic eruptions, tsunamis and even earthquakes because they are more difficult to detect and track over time.
This story has been updated to correct the sequence of the tests on the state’s all-hazard emergency warning sirens. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho, and Kelleher from Honolulu. Associated Press journalists Andrew Selsky in Salem, Oregon; Matt Sedensky in New York City; Haven Daley in Wailuku, Hawaii; Helen Wieffering in Washington; Christopher Keller in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Brian Melley in London contributed.
Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

In Maui, it's not difficult to spot one of the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger.
Each month, the blares go off as part of the island's routine tests. The noise, as loud as a rock concert, can be detected from more than half a mile away.
During natural disasters — including wildfires — Maui County said the sirens are designed to blast a steady three-minute tone to inform the public to seek further instructions on their local radio or television station. But ahead of the historic fires last week, the sirens were silent. The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's spokesman, Adam Weintraub, confirmed to NPR that local officials did not activate the siren system.
He was not able to give a reason as to why but emphasized that three other warning systems were used, such as alerts to cellphones and through TV and radio stations. Weintraub added the speed and size of the catastrophe was unforeseeable.
But some residents say they did not receive any alerts on the first day of the fires and argue that the sirens could have made a difference. The county's emergency response will be under review by both Hawaii's governor and attorney general.
As of Monday, the wildfires have killed at least 96 people — becoming the deadliest in modern U.S. history. Thousands of acres have been burned. The historic town of Lahaina is nearly decimated.
Countless number of people remain missing. And the blazes have yet to be fully contained.
The state's first sirens date back as early as 1940. At the time, they were designed for military use in case of enemy attacks, according to Chris Gregg, a geology professor at East Tennessee State University who studied Hawaii's siren system. It wasn't until 1946, after a major tsunami killed nearly 160 people, that officials realized the sirens could be used to warn of natural disasters.
A few years later, local telephone books began to publish information on the different siren sounds and what threat they were associated with. In 1960, when a major tsunami hit Hilo, researchers learned that many residents didn't know the meaning of the siren sound or what to do next — both of which may have contributed to the death toll, Gregg said.
That led to one single steady tone, linked to all natural disasters, in order to grab people's attention. "This new tone meant attention alert and people were directed to television or radio station to find out what the threat was," he added. Sirens can be helpful in cases of emergency but it depends on how much time the public has to respond.
"That's the limitation of these sirens, they don't tell you exactly what to do," said Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness. People require time to figure out the emergency at hand and what the proper response is.
But time can be extremely limited during fast-moving wildfires, like the ones seen in Maui. According to DeYoung, once a person sees signs of an impending fire, they could have as little as three minutes to evacuate before the situation becomes life-threatening.
Sirens can also become less effective if the area has been a history of false alarms, which happened in Hawaii twice in recent years, she added. In 2018, a false missile alarm sent residents scrambling for shelter after a worker pressed the wrong button. In 2019, emergency sirens wailing about a potential tsunami threat in Oahu and Maui turned out to be a mistake.
Maui sent emergency alerts to cellphones, TVs and radio stations ahead of the wildfires but some residents say they never received any alerts because of poor service or lack of cable TV — which is why DeYoung argues for a multi-tiered warning system. "It's better to give people more information than not enough," DeYoung said. Though sirens offer limited information, it may have reached people who were not yet notified, offering possibly more time to prepare.
Brenda Ligia Makani Keau could see one of Maui's siren towers from her back room window. She heard its loud blares less than two weeks ago as part of the island's routine test to ensure the emergency warning system works. But when scores of wildfires crept up, Keau from Makawao did not hear the sirens go off.
Nor did she receive any alerts on her phone. Instead, Keau learned about the impending flames through social media. Later, in the same window that viewed the siren, Keau saw a red and orange inferno. In West Maui, Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina, similarly saw black smoke billowing from a distance before he heard any word from local officials.
According to him, residents began to flood the streets and traffic extended for miles, making it nearly impossible to evacuate. Lansford believes more people could have survived if they were notified just minutes earlier. "If they would have heard a siren on Lahaina road, those people would have lived," he said.

With the official death toll rising to 89 on Saturday, the Lāhainā Fire became the deadliest US fire in the past century, surpassing the 85 who perished in the 2018 Camp Fire in California that destroyed the town of Paradise.
The last time a U.S. fire was deadlier was Minnesota’s Cloquet fire in 1918. It was caused by sparks on the local railroads and dry conditions, killing 453 people.
The search for victims will continue, with more help arriving from FEMA urban search and rescue teams and 12 additional cadaver-sniffing dogs. But as of Saturday, only 3% of the burned area of Lāhainā has been thoroughly searched by dogs, Pelletier said.
To make sure everyone is found, Green, Pelletier and Maui Mayor Richard Bissen all reiterated that people need to stay out of the burned areas of Lāhainā. “We’ve got an area that we have to contain that is at least five square miles
and it is full of our loves ones,” Pelletier said. Of the 89 deceased who have been found, only two have been identified, Pelletier said. People who have a missing family member should go to the Family Assistance Center to do a DNA test. “We need to identify your loved ones,” Pelletier said.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

Scientists and academics say they have been warning for several years that invasive grasses covering a quarter of the Hawaii islands are a major fire risk.
Untamed grassland helped fuel the spread and intensity of last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui, according to experts. The fires, which broke out last Tuesday, have killed at least 106 people and destroyed the island’s historic town of Lahaina. A July 2021 report on wildfire prevention by a Maui government commission warned that non-native grasses are making Hawaii more vulnerable to destructive fires, saying their presence, particularly on abandoned sugarcane fields, provides a source of “combustible, rapidly burning fuels” that “needs to be addressed”.
Hawaii’s last sugarcane mill, HC&S, which covered 14,570 hectares (36,000 acres) on Maui, closed in 2016. “The lands around Lahaina were all sugarcane from the 1860s to the late 1990s.
Nothing’s been done since then – hence the problem with invasive grasses and fire risk,” said Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa. Asked if the non-native grasses made the Maui fire worse, Trauernicht said that any form of “land use or land care would have made the situation safer”, given that the grasses were “completely left unmanaged”. The 2021 report quotes Trauernicht describing the wildfire season in Hawaii as a “one-two punch” of wet then dry conditions.
During the wetter part of the year, “a lot of vegetation and particularly grasses … grow and grow very fast,” he said. Then, in the dry period, the grasses turn “from green to yellow to brown pretty quickly … making us way more vulnerable to these big, destructive fires”.
The non-native grass species include fountaingrass (Cenchrus setaceus) and Guinea grass (Megathyrsus maximus), both of which have “adapted to thrive with fire”, according to a factsheet from the Pacific Fire Exchange (PFX), a Hawaiian fire science communication project. The grasses, PFX said, were originally introduced to feed cattle and provide ornamentation.
“The early part of 2023 was wet, which helped grass growth, and then we have had quite a dry summer, with a moderate drought on Maui for about a month now,” said Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts. Frazier was on the nearby island of Oahu when the Maui fires broke out. The exact ignition source has yet to be determined, and the risks were heightened by the strong winds associated with Hurricane Dora, but Frazier said “the overall cause of this fire being so large was the invasive grasses”. Non-native grasses now cover about 25% of the state of Hawaii, Frazier added, and grow well on the drier, leeward side of Maui where Lahaina lies.
Frazier and Trauernicht said it was impossible to know what would have happened if the grasses had been removed. But reducing the coverage – using grazing animals, for example – could have tamed the fire’s intensity, they said, while farming activity, reforestation or fire breaks might have slowed its progress. “It’s the speed of the fires through these grasslands that is and continues to be the problem here,” Trauernicht said.
Another problem, said Camilo Mora, an environment professor at the University of Hawaii, Mānoa, is the failure to tackle the climate crisis. “Yes, the grasses were a disaster waiting to happen, but … the silver bullet [solution] is reducing GHG [greenhouse gas] emissions,” he said.
Maui County’s governor’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the role of the grasses or the 2021 report which identified them as a risk. Katie Kamelamela, an ethnoecologist at Arizona State University, said that non-native grasslands cover a quarter of Hawaii, dominantly to the west where many tourist destinations, including Lahaina, are located. The grasses include kikuyu grass (Cenchrus clandestinus), fountaingrass (Cenchrus setaceus) and molasses grass (Melinis minutiflora).
With small seeds that disperse on wind during winter months, Guinea grass can grow six inches a day in spring and reach up to 10ft tall. In summer, these grasses dry out and become a tinderbox. When wildfires break out, the area is cleared, the seeds grow, and the grass fire cycle starts all over again.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency has resigned effectively immediately amid sharp critiques of his handling of the wildfire disaster.
Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen made the announcement in a news release Thursday. Administrator Herman Andaya cited “health reasons” in his resignation. “Given the gravity of the crisis we are facing, my team and I will be placing someone in this key position as quickly as possible and I look forward to making that announcement soon,” Bissen said.
Andaya has faced mounting questions about his leadership. In a news conference on Wednesday, he defended the decision not to activate emergency sirens in Lahaina, saying sounding the sirens would have sent people fleeing into fire. That’s even though sirens are considered “all-hazards,” including for wildfires.
Andaya’s whereabouts on the night of the wildfire are also raising concerns. His resignation leaves Maui without an emergency management head as recovery teams continue the grueling work of recovering remains from the wreckage of what was Lahaina’s historic center.
As of Thursday, the death toll in the disaster stands at 111. But with hundreds still missing, authorities concede that number is almost certain to rise. Among the dead are entire families whose bodies were found huddled in cars or in homes, underscoring the speed of the wildfire and the lack of a warning.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

Officials in Maui, Hawaii, believe sounding the local alarm system before the wildfires engulfed several neighbourhoods would not have been useful, they said in a press conference on Wednesday.
As the death toll in Maui rises each day, questions have been raised over the officials who chose not to activate their emergency alert system and have sirens go off near coastal towns like Lahaina before the fast-moving fires reached populated areas. “Had we sounded the siren that night, we were afraid that people would have gone mauka (to the mountainside),” Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator told reporters.
Mr Andaya said their outdoor sirens are typically used for tsunamis in which residents are trained to seek higher ground. “And if that was the case, they would have gone into the fire,” he added.
Mr Andaya said that the outdoor sirens only exist on the coastline so even for the people who live mountainside, they would have been useless to them. He added that most people probably would not have heard the siren due to the winds and incoming fire. Several survivors of the fires have voiced their frustration about not receiving a warning about the wildfires which led to frantic evacuations when it was too late to leave Lahaina.
But officials said they sent out emergency alerts via phone, radio and TV about the wildfires, which they believed to be the most efficient way to get the message out. Some reports indicate by the time the emergency alert went out, parts of Maui did not have power or cell phone signal due to the high winds and incoming fires.
On Hawaii’s Emergency Management Agency website, it indicates the outdoor sirens can be used for hurricanes, dam breaches, flooding, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, terrorist threats, hazardous material incidents and more. Despite this, both Mr Andaya and governor Josh Green said the siren is advertised as being used almost exclusively for tsunamis – especially for beachside neighbourhoods and towns. That single-minded approach to the sirens has proven dangerous after the Maui wildfires.
Mr Green said in the future they are going to find new ways to keep the public informed about incoming disasters. “We’re performing a comprehensive review to find out what the safest and most effective, science-based way is to protect people,” Mr Green told reporters.

An aerial image taken on August 10, 2023 shows destroyed homes and buildings on the waterfront burned to the ground in Lahaina in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui, Hawaii.
MANILA, Philippines — The Department of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that a Filipino has died from the wildfire in Maui, Hawaii. Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega identified the victim as Alfredo Galinato, a 79-year-old native of Ilocos who was naturalized in the United States. "The DFA confirms the death of a Filipino national in the Hawaii wildfires.
He was a naturalized US citizen originally from Ilocos," De Vega said in a media release this Friday. "The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu is assisting the family, who are all based in Hawaii," he added.
While Galinato was previously reported as one of the early fatalities of the sudden fire, his nationality had not been immediately confirmed as Filipino. Galinato was a US-naturalized citizen but authorities had not found his data in the consulate's database, De Vega explained in an interview with Philstar.com.
His Facebook account also reveals that he hailed from Vigan, Ilocos Sur. De Vega said the Philippine Consul General in Honolulu has extended assistance to around 66 Filipinos in Wailuku affected by the fires. "The Consulate is providing assistance to the family with financial support... Our condolences go out to the bereaved family,” De Vega said.
The destructive wildfires in the Hawaiian island of Maui have left more than 1,000 missing. Many of the deceased are suspected to have perished while trapped in houses or vehicles while attempting to evacuate. The Philippine Consulate General in Honolulu said Filipinos affected by the wildfires may reach the consulate through its emergency hotline (+1 808 253 9466), email ([email protected]), or Facebook page.

As people fled the fires, pets did too. Some emerged with marks of escape, but thousands remain lost. A dog with its hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip whimpered in pain through a plastic medical cone, its chest rising and falling quickly in shallow breaths.
The animal is one of the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Hawaii wildfires that claimed more than 100 lives and decimated a historic town. The deadliest US wildfire in more than 100 years has left hundreds of dogs, cats and other pets lost, injured or dead. An estimated 3,000 animals from Lahaina remain missing, according to the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds.
Fuelled by dry grass and propelled by strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fires raced as fast as 1.6 kilometres every minute in one area. People were forced to scramble and flee in harrowing escapes they later relayed to family members who waited in agony to learn of their fate.
The stories of the animals, though, were told by the damage on their bodies. A cat arrived with singed fur and spots of leg burns. A chicken needed both scorched claws wrapped with thick, blue medical tape.
A clinic worker used surgical tweezers to delicately remove debris from a dog's paws while another technician cradled the head, rubbed the neck with gentle thumb strokes and spoke calmly into the animal's ear. They were the lucky ones. On a Maui street, a dog’s charred body was found.
As the smoke clears and officials survey the scope of loss and destruction, animal welfare advocates are working with the Maui Police Department to enter the burn area in search of lost, injured or deceased animals. “As those areas continue to widen, we will be able to expand our scope of services,” said Lisa Labrecque, CEO of the Maui Humane Society, at a Monday news conference. Dozens of feeding stations stocked with food and water have been set to draw scared animals out of hiding so they can be tracked and transported to a shelter, where veterinary staffers treat both burn injuries and smoke inhalation cases.
Found animals are checked for identification and scanned for a microchip so owners may be contacted. The Maui Humane Society has asked that deceased animals not be moved or destroyed so they can be cataloged and checked for identification.

The wildfires raging on Maui came to the doorstep of an endangered bird center, with staff rushing to extinguish flames before they crept to aviaries housing some of the rarest birds in the world.
Early Tuesday morning, Jennifer Pribble, a wildlife care supervisor at the bird sanctuary, and a neighbor saw smoke billowing across the road from the bird center. When the pair noticed the fire had leaped the road, Pribble ran to grab fire extinguishers, hoping to put out the flames before they spread up the grass and to barns with critically endangered birds.
The grass was so dry that it could have taken minutes to reach them. There was no way to evacuate the birds in time.
The Maui Bird Conservation Center is home to critically endangered honeycreepers unique to the tropical islands, with melodic names like the palila, kiwikiu and ‘akikiki. The center is run by the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance. In the wild, the songbird species are succumbing to an avian form of malaria brought by invasive mosquitoes that are creeping up the islands’ slopes as the climate warms.
There are thought to be only five 'akikiki left in the wild. At the center, the birds are kept behind mosquito nets. With plans to suppress the mosquito population in the works, the loss of the center and its birds would have been devastating to efforts to restore the populations in the wild.
The center also houses some of the last remaining ‘alalā, or Hawaiian crows, which are now extinct in the wild. The birds almost vanished for good before scientists discovered that they are capable of using sticks as tools. Conservationists hope to reintroduce the crows to the wild, too, in the coming years. To mitigate against disasters like fires, the zoo alliance keeps members of rare species in different spots — some at the Maui facility and others at a similar sanctuary on Hawaii’s Big Island.
So many trees and branches were knocked down by the winds that other staffers had to use chain saws to get up the road and join Pribble at the bird center, high in the mountains on Maui. Since putting out the fire near the sanctuary, the priority has been to move the birds to barns away from trees that may fall. “They’ve just fallen everywhere,” said Emily Senninger, a spokeswoman for the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance who is in Maui.
The mosquito netting in some of the aviaries has been torn, she added, and needs fixing. A tree fell on one aviary but didn’t cause significant structural damage.

An airplane just left Maui carrying very special passengers: 136 shelter dogs and cats. The pets were being cared for by Maui Humane Society when wildfires erupted on the Hawaiian island last week and devastated the historic town of Lahaina.
The island’s only open-admission animal shelter was full, so the team had put out a call for “SOS” fosters and reduced adoption fees as part of the national Clear the Shelters campaign. Now the shelter needs space for all the animals separated from their families during the catastrophe, according to Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society.
So the nonprofit Greater Good Charities partnered with Southwest Airlines and the nonprofit Lucky Dog Animal Rescue to fly 33 dogs and 103 cats from Maui to Portland, Oregon, in an emergency airlift. On Aug. 17, a donated airplane flew to Maui filled with supplies like T-shirts, blankets, socks, flashlights, hygiene kits and pet food.
Meanwhile, veterinarians on the island examined each shelter pet to make sure they were healthy and ready for travel. Now the dogs and cats are flying in the cabin, snuggled in crates alongside humans — including a Greater Good Charities volunteer veterinarian — who are there to make sure they’re OK during their trip to the mainland. Liz Baker, CEO of Greater Good Charities, said the dogs and cats should be available for adoption soon through the Oregon Humane Society. The Aug. 18 flight won’t be the nonprofit’s last efforts to help pets and people on Maui, according to Baker.
Maui Humane Society’s Shannon agrees. She noted that fires are still burning in Lahaina and Kula, and that an estimated 3,000 pets are missing.
While shelter staff and volunteers aren’t yet allowed to enter Lahaina, they have helped hundreds of animals in the field and provided feed and thousands of gallons of water for livestock. Their veterinary team has provided a range of services, from wellness exams to treating severely burned pets.
Reunions help bolster the team, she says. For instance, a good Samaritan recently found a mixed-breed dog named Roman who arrived at the shelter terrified and dehydrated, with scorched whiskers, blisters all over his back and skin peeling off his paws. The shelter’s veterinary team cared for Roman and scanned for a microchip, which allowed the shelter to call the dog’s owners, who picked him up later that day. That’s how the team learned Roman’s harrowing story.
Shannon expects an influx of injured and displaced pets once the fire is extinguished in Lahaina and the team can enter the area. Monetary donations are a huge help to Maui Humane Society because “we still have a very long way to go,” she says.
Island residents have been opening their doors to people who lost their homes — sometimes with five to six pets and 10 to 25 people living in a single home, according to Shannon. Shannon is immensely grateful for the chance for 136 homeless pets from Maui to have the opportunity to be adopted into homes on the mainland. The shelter pets from Maui Humane Society flying to Portland will be received by Oregon Humane Society and shelter partners in California's Bay Area to prepare for adoption into forever homes. These include Berkeley Humane, Marin Humane, Animal Rescue Foundation, East Bay SPCA, Tri-City Animal Shelter and Friends of the Alameda Animal Shelter.

PUUNENE, Hawaii (AP) — A dog with hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip whimpered in pain through a plastic medical cone, chest rising and falling quickly in shallow breaths.
The animal is one of the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town. The deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than 100 years has left hundreds of dogs, cats and other pets lost, injured or dead. An estimated 3,000 animals from Lahaina remain missing, according to the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds.
Fueled by dry grass and propelled by strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fires raced as fast as a mile (1.6 kilometers) every minute in one area, forcing people to scramble and flee in harrowing escapes they later relayed to family members who waited in agony to learn of their fate. The stories of the animals, though, were told by the damage on their bodies. A cat arrived with singed fur and spots of leg burns.
A chicken needed both scorched claws wrapped with thick, blue medical tape. A clinic worker used surgical tweezers to delicately remove debris from a dog's paws while another technician cradled the head, rubbed the neck with gentle thumb strokes and spoke calmly into the animal's ear. They were the lucky ones.
On a Maui street, a dog’s charred body was found. As the smoke clears and officials survey the scope of loss and destruction, animal welfare advocates are working with the Maui Police Department to enter the burn area in search of lost, injured or deceased animals. Dozens of feeding stations stocked with food and water have been set to draw scared animals out of hiding so they can be tracked and transported to a shelter, where veterinary staffers treat both burn injuries and smoke inhalation cases.
Found animals are checked for identification and scanned for a microchip so owners may be contacted. The Maui Humane Society has asked that deceased animals not be moved or destroyed so they can be cataloged and checked for identification.

Public schools on Maui have started the process of reopening in a sign of recovery a week after wildfires demolished a historic town and killed over 100 people, even as additional cadaver dogs arrived Wednesday to help teams search for more remains on Hawaii’s second-largest island.
At least three schools untouched by flames in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash, were still being assessed after sustaining wind damage, said Hawaii Department of Education superintendent Keith Hayashi. The campuses will open when they're deemed safe.
Elsewhere on Maui, crews cleaned up ash and debris at schools, and tested air and water quality for toxins. Displaced students who enroll at those campuses can access services such as meals, socialization and counseling, Hayashi said. The education department is also offering counseling for kids, family members and staff.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency opened its first disaster recovery center on Maui, “an important first step" toward helping residents get information about assistance, FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell said Wednesday. They also can go there for updates on their aid applications. With the death toll already at 106, a mobile morgue unit with additional coroners arrived in Hawaii on Tuesday to help with the grim task of sorting through remains.
Search and recovery crews using cadaver dogs had scoured approximately 30% of the burn area by Tuesday, officials said. The number of canine teams was increasing to 49 because of the difficulty and scope of the operation, FEMA said. The dogs need to rest frequently because of the terrain and heat.
Searchers combing through the ashes found some of Lahaina's most vulnerable residents, including children, among the victims. Gov. Josh Green said this week that teams found a family of four killed in a charred car, and the remains of seven family members inside a burned-down house. “Some of the sights are too much to share, or see, just from a human perspective,” Green told Hawaii News Now on Tuesday.
Just over a quarter of Lahaina's 13,000 residents are under age 18, according to Census Reporter, an organization that analyzes U.S. Census data. Another 10% are ages 71 or older. Sacred Hearts School in Lahaina was destroyed and Principal Tonata Lolesio said lessons would resume in the coming weeks at another Catholic school.
She said it was important for the students to be with their friends, teachers and books, and not constantly thinking about the tragedy. “I’m hoping to at least try to get some normalcy or get them in a room where they can continue to learn or just be in another environment where they can take their minds off of that,” she said.
None of the roughly 3,000 public school students in Lahaina were in classes last Tuesday when the fires started. The education department had closed several West Maui campuses because of dangerously high winds and many students stayed home while their parents worked, according to survivors' accounts.
Communication on Maui remained difficult Wednesday. Some people walked periodically to a seawall, where phone connections were strongest, to make calls.
Flying low off the coast, a single-prop airplane used a loudspeaker to blare information about where to find water and supplies. Thousands of displaced residents were staying in shelters, hotel rooms and Airbnb units, or with friends. The power company restored supply to over 10,000 customers but around 2,000 homes and businesses still had no electricity Tuesday night, Maui County wrote. The fire also contaminated water supplies in many areas.
On Tuesday, the county released the names of two victims: Lahaina residents Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79. They are the first of five who have been identified so far. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier renewed an appeal for families missing relatives to provide DNA samples.
The cause of the wildfires, already the deadliest in the U.S. in more than a century, was under investigation. Green has warned that scores more bodies could be found. The governor warned Tuesday that a new storm approaching the islands could complicate the search and recovery, and that officials might cut off power as a precaution during the erratic weather.
The local power utility faced criticism for leaving power on as strong winds from a passing hurricane buffeted a parched area last week, and one video shows a cable dangling in a charred patch of grass, surrounded by flames, in the early moments of the wildfire. The cause of the wildfires, some of which still burned, remained under investigation.
The Lahaina fire caused about $3.2 billion in insured property losses, according to calculations by Karen Clark & Company, a prominent disaster and risk modeling company. It said more than 2,200 buildings were damaged or destroyed by flames, with about 3,000 damaged by fire, smoke or both.
John Allen and his daughter surveyed an ash-gray landscape once festooned with colorful orchids and plumerias from a hill above the Lahaina fire zone. His daughter wept as she pointed to the coffee shop where she used to work, and the places they used to live. Allen moved to Maui two years ago after leaving Oakland, California, where he witnessed a destructive wildfire race up hillsides in 1991.
“No one realizes how quickly fires move,” Allen said. Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press journalists Bobby Caina Calvan in Kihei, Hawaii; Haven Daley in Kalapua, Hawaii; Kathy McCormack in Concord, New Hampshire; Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City, Missouri; and Darlene Superville and Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed.
Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

WAILUKU >>
Seven more victims were discovered a week after wind-whipped, chaotic wildfires wiped out the town of Lahaina — raising the death toll to 106 on Tuesday. As the number of deaths continued to climb, the names of the first two victims to be formally identified were released. Maui County officials said next of kin were notified that Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79, both of Lahaina, had perished in what has become the worst U.S. wildfire in over a century.. Three more victims have been officially identified, but their families had yet be notified, the county said.
Tributes poured in from Jantoc’s family and longtime friends on Facebook. The musician lived in the Hale Mahaolu Eono senior complex, where many evacuees have been worried about the fate of the residents.
Gov. Josh Green and other officials have said the community should brace for more casualties, including children. On Tuesday, a convoy of air-conditioned Matson shipping containers pulled up to the Maui Police Department’s Forensic Facility.
Most of the dead in Lahaina were burned beyond recognition but some are clearly children, Green told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. Most of them were left in such a delicate state that they have to be handled carefully to preserve their remains, said Green, a medical doctor. The bodies of the first to be identified were in better shape and were identified through fingerprints, he said.
Green called the search for victims “a race against time” before the remains are further degraded by rains or storms. Among the dead are seven victims — apparently a family — discovered in a single household, Green said. Asked about the possibility that tourists were among the victims, Green said his office has not been contacted by anyone looking for visitors to Lahaina who are still missing. About 32 percent of the restricted area in Lahaina has now been searched for bodies, up from 25% Monday.
On Friday, Green expects to announce a date when President Joe Biden plans to tour Lahaina, possibly joined by first lady Jill Biden. Biden has not yet visited because he wants to be respectful of the ongoing search for victims, Green said.
He spoke with the president Tuesday and told Biden that he has applied for 100% reimbursement of federal dollars to cover all costs, compared with the usual 75% at this point in a disaster. Green expects the costs to ultimately reach into the tens of billions of dollars. The White House said Biden had been briefed on the recovery efforts by Green and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Deanne Criswell on Tuesday.
Later in the day, Green went on his Facebook page to announce that Lahaina Bypass Road would open Tuesday night for West Maui residents, first responders and employees. Starting this morning, the road will open to all motorists daily from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Access from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. will then be limited to residents, first responders and employees in West Maui. “It was time to open the road and decompress people’s angst,” Green told the Star-Advertiser.
In his YouTube video, Green clarified that an idea he mentioned Monday about a possible moratorium on sales of property damaged or destroyed by the Maui fires was designed to protect vulnerable property owners and not a government attempt to acquire private land. On Monday, Green said that he asked state Attorney General Anne Lopez to explore options for a possible moratorium on sales of damaged or destroyed property in an effort to ban out-of-state buyers from preying on fire survivors.
Green said in his Tuesday video address that Maui attorneys have volunteered their time at disaster response centers to provide legal advice to property owners who may have been contacted about buying their damaged or destroyed property. No specifics of how a moratorium might be applied have been shared, but Green — who has emergency powers — said he will do everything he can to protect local property owners in Lahaina. Outside Maui’s Forensic Facility, federal employees worked around the shipping containers in uniforms marked U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Health and Human Services and Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team.
They brought in more than 22-1/2 tons of supplies and equipment that arrived Tuesday to assist with the processing of human remains. The Federal Emergency Management Agency on Tuesday said that 1,200 survivors have received just under $2 million in assistance from the agency, including emergency shelter in hotels and other locations. Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, pushed back against social media posts urging Lahaina residents not to trust FEMA relief efforts or risk losing their properties.
“Applying assistance for FEMA does not give FEMA any authority or ownership over anyone’s property,” Turi said in a media conference call. “It does not commit any change in ownership or otherwise impact the ownership of property. FEMA assistance is there to support survivors with their immediate needs with their personal property, with their housing repairs.
We encourage all survivors to register for assistance. FEMA, so far, has processed $630,000 in critical needs assistance to fire survivors who are eligible for a one-time payment of $700 per household for immediate relief.
Overall, 3,400 people have registered with FEMA for a range of assistance to help with home repairs, replacement of belongings, rent, crisis counseling and other needs, Turi said. Turi said the number of people applying for aid should rise significantly with the window for registration open for 60 days after an official emergency declaration.
Disaster Recovery Centers will be established on Maui in a few days to help fire survivors navigate the various assistance programs and to provide referrals. Locations have yet to be announced.
FEMA has 380 specialists working on Maui in different locations and in different missions, Turi said. Nearly 500 federal personnel, in all, have been deployed to Maui to assist residents, the White House said.
FEMA has also provided 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 cots, and 10,000 blankets, plus shelter supplies to the county government for distribution, she said. The U.S. Fire Administration is focusing on the needs of the firefighters who responded to the catastrophe, with officials visiting fire stations on Maui to assess their physical and mental health resources, said Deputy U.S. Fire Administrator Tonya Hoover during the same conference call.
She stressed the importance of firefighters registering with the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health’s National Firefighter Registry for Cancer, which studies links between firefighting and cancer. FEMA said a victim identification team will work at Maui’s Family Assistance Center, open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at the Kahului Community Center, where families can report loved ones who are unaccounted for and submit DNA swabs to help identify fire victims.
The Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Teams have responded to numerous natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding and the Haiti earthquakes, and has assisted the National Transportation Safety Board at major transportation incidents. Council member Yuki Lei Sugimura, who represents Upcountry Maui, reminded residents Tuesday that it “is UNSAFE” to drink or cook tap water.
“Residents are unable to treat the water in any way to make it safe,” she said in a statement. Drinking water sites have been set up at Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center, Keokea and Ulupalakua Ranch. “Thank you to all of our neighbors who are helping each other out,” Sugimura wrote. Staff writers Andrew Gomes and Christie Wilson contributed to this report.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - One week after a wall of flames turned Lahaina town to ash, Maui County is faced with a daunting task: Finding and identifying every person who died.
While 106 people have been confirmed killed, the final human toll of the disaster is still not known. Hundreds of men, women and children are still missing and many are feared dead.
“It’s going to be a very, very difficult mission and patience will be very important,” said U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary of Response Jonathan Green. Meanwhile, the federal government has deployed a federal disaster mortuary operations response team along with a victim identification team to Maui. Personnel will be working with the Maui County Coroner’s Office in an effort to return the remains of victims who perished in the fire to their families. Those teams comprise 75 people, including coroners, pathologists, and x-ray and lab technicians.
A portable morgue also arrived in Hawaii on Tuesday. The unit consists of all the equipment needed for victim identification and processing remains.
“We are augmenting and supporting the Maui Corners office. We will be supplementing their staff and their facility with our staff and equipment,” Green said.
To help identify loved ones, people are urged to go to the Family Assistance Center at the Kahalui Community Center for a DNA cheek swab. The samples would be compared to the DNA of the victims. But collecting DNA from those who perished could be a challenge.
One week after a wall of flames turned Lahaina town to ash, Maui County is faced with a daunting task: Finding and identifying every person who died. “Chances of finding good DNA samples might be a really hard thing to do,” said Kari Inda, Lecturer of Forensic Sciences at Chaminade University.
“Even though the individual may not be identified today or tomorrow, there is hope there’ll be a good fight in weeks or months to follow; that’s so, so important,” said Dr. Robert Mann, Forensic Anthropologist at UH’s John A. Burns School of Medicine. By the state’s request, Mann, who has helped identify remains of mass casualties like those who were in the Pentagon on 9/11, will be heading to Maui on Wednesday to help with recovery efforts. “I just hope that we can stay in this together,” said Mann. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

WAILUKU >>
As teams of cadaver dogs continue their painstaking search for human remains among the ashes and debris from last week’s Lahaina wildlife, a contingent of federal mortuary experts has been deployed to Maui along with a mobile morgue that arrived Tuesday to assist in the equally meticulous task of processing the dead to identify those who perished. Maui County on Tuesday raised the death toll from the Aug. 8 catastrophe to 106 — seven more than the previous day’s total — with hundreds more unaccounted for. Officials warn the number of fatalities will increase significantly since only about a third of the 5-square-mile impact area has been examined by the 20 specially trained dogs and their handlers, members of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Urban Search & Rescue Task Force.
A Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team and victim identification experts also have been dispatched to Maui, to augment state and county mortuary resources, according to Jonathan Greene, deputy assistant secretary and director of the Office of Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The team includes coroners, pathologists, X-ray and lab technicians, and other staff, Greene said in a conference call Tuesday with the media.
The 22-1/2 tons of equipment and supplies that arrived includes examination tables and X-ray and lab equipment. He said a victim identification team will be working at the county’s Family Assistance Center, open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at the Kahului Community Center, where families have been providing information on loved ones who are unaccounted for and submitting DNA swabs to help identify fire victims. Federal DMORT teams have responded to numerous natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and the Haiti earthquakes, and have assisted the National Transportation Safety Board at major transportation incidents.
The Maui Police Department on Tuesday released the first two names of those killed in the Lahaina wildfire: Lahaina residents Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79. MPD said three other individuals have been identified but their families had yet to be notified.
Earlier in the day, police said 13 DNA profiles had been obtained from victims and 41 DNA samples had been obtained from family members of missing people. The Lahaina wildfire is the deadliest such U.S. natural disaster in more than a century, surpassing the 85 known fatalities from the 2018 Camp fire in Northern California that destroyed the town of Paradise.
According to media reports at the time, making positive identifications of those who died in the Camp fire was exceedingly difficult. Many were burned beyond recognition, with only individual bones or fragments remaining. Identification by dental records was not always possible because dentist offices in town were wiped out in the fire along with nearly everything else.
The scarcity of remains and the prolonged, intense heat to which the victims were exposed also complicated DNA analysis in some cases. Lacking such evidence, investigators often have to rely on circumstantial information such as where the victim was found and their estimated age and sex, not always making for reliable identification.
Although Maui County officials have talked of finding victims whose remains were reduced to ash in the Lahaina firestorm, recovery teams likely are uncovering bodies in various states, according to Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine. Those with minimal burns generally are the first to be identified, he said, as was the case with the first Lahaina wildfire victims who were identified through fingerprints.
“My expectation is that you’re going to go from complete or nearly complete bodies to just fragmentary remains,” Mann said. The pathologist worked for 23 years with the Department of Defense’s Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command’s Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii and before that with the Smithsonian Institution. He helped identify victims at such mass-casualty events as the 9/11 attack on the Pentagon, the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the 1997 crash of a Korean Air flight on Guam, and assisted with the investigation into Jeffrey Dahmer and other serial killers.
He said using fingerprints and dental records are usually the first steps toward identifying victims, but records for comparison aren’t always available. Other clues can be found in tattoos, pacemakers or other medical implants, and prior broken bones.
“There are a lot of things we can use,” he said. Mann recalled his own experiences at the military identification lab in the early 1990s before DNA testing was widely used, and how in a matter of two short years once the technique was accepted, they were suddenly able to identify bone fragments the size of a fingernail that were collected decades earlier. He said even Civil War remains have now been identified through DNA. “One of the most important things we can ever do is hold hope that identification is going to be made,” Mann said.
>> The Family Assistance Center at the Kahului Community Center, 275 Uhu St., is open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. for family members searching for missing loved ones and to submit DNA samples for identification. >> The American Red Cross set up a hotline at 800-733-2767 for people trying to locate loved ones.

As the toll from Maui’s catastrophic wildfires continues to climb, experts warn the disaster also poses a grave threat to the coral reefs and delicate ocean ecosystems that surround the devastated town of Lahaina. Layers of charred soils and toxic contaminants were left among the wreckage, where thousands of buildings and blackened cars lie in smoldering ruins.
The conflagration that claimed more lives than any other US wildfire in the last century burned to the shoreline, littering underwater habitats with scorched boats and debris. The ashen aftermath could end up wreaking more havoc if allowed to slip into the aquatic environment.
“The areas that burned are right by the ocean and all the vegetation cover was burned,” said Luiz Rocha, ichthyology curator at the California Academy of Sciences, who added that rains could soon wash the topsoil into the sea, inundating marine habitats with toxic sediment. Ash and runoff from the fire could be deadly for the reef-building corals that thrive in pollutant-free waters where light can reach them. The underwater invertebrates that typically feed on plankton do not have the ability to distinguish food from filth and may also ingest the harmful runoff.
The situation is one of many ecological concerns as relief efforts continue, with plans only beginning to be put in place for cleaning up the enormous amounts of toxic wreckage left behind. Experts have long warned of the threats posed by changing landscapes across the Hawaiian Islands, particularly the proliferation of non-native grasses that are prone to burning and have been blamed for fuelling the Maui fire.
The reefs, including those around Lahaina, are ecologically important for fish and also serve as a shield against the breaking surf that could otherwise eat away more of the coastline. Further damage is expected to have long-term effects on the island’s ecosystems, especially because a series of other threats – from warming ocean temperatures to plastic pollution – have already weakened the reefs, making them even more vulnerable to the fire’s aftermath. Along with issues stemming from increased sediment and toxic contaminants flowing into the water, experts are concerned that the runoff could trigger harmful algal blooms.
Considered culturally important to Native Hawaiians, the vibrant coral reef is also a tourism lure that helps to sustain the islands’ economy. Home to native fish populations and other aquatic creatures, the health of the reef is also closely tied to sustenance on the island. Maui’s Olowalu reef, where the largest manta ray population in the US can be found, could be among those at risk – especially as the threats from fire continue to rise.
Climate change has been the biggest driver in the decline of coral, and reefs in West Maui also help produce coral larvae that replenish reefs across the islands of Maui, Lanai, Molokai and Kahoolawe, according to Rob Ferguson, a coral reef watershed management specialist associated with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s coral reef conservation program. “These reefs have high concentrations of endemic marine species that don’t live anywhere else in the world,” he said.
Experts have encouraged officials to prioritize water quality monitoring and efforts to limit further contamination of coastal marine ecosystems as the cleanup and recovery work continues. Danger still lurks beneath the singed soils, where the seeds of invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames lie ready to sprout again.
Acres of abandoned farmland, once powerhouse producers of pineapples and sugarcane or cleared for cattle, have now become fire-prone fields creating tinderbox conditions as the island’s landscapes have dried and warmed. Scorched slopes can quickly resprout, and set the stage for the next ignition to turn into an inferno.
“Those invasive grasses will have no problem coming back,” said Jon Keeley, a senior scientist with the United States Geographical Survey’s western ecological research center. The aggressive plants retain their robust roots even after stalks are consumed by flames and, because they are adapted to fire, can come back even stronger after a blaze while native seedlings languish. Once established, they spread quickly and are difficult to eradicate.
The plants have spread quickly in recent years and now cover roughly 25% of Hawaii’s landscapes, according to research from the University of Hawaii, Manoa, according to wildland fire specialist Clay Trauernicht, who has long warned about the growing dangers and called for more eradication efforts. The shift has worsened fire conditions on landscapes that once rarely ignited, and helped usher in more opportunities for dangerous grassland fires that burn hot and fast.
“They have a positive feedback cycle,” said Brad Shaffer, professor for the department of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of California, Los Angeles. As cleanup efforts begin to commence in Maui, Keeley and Shaffer agreed that opportunities exist to eradicate the invasive plants – but the work will probably be arduous and expensive. Managing the growth of highly flammable grasses around communities could also help slow flames and prevent the next tragedy from occurring.

Insured property losses from the wildfire that razed Lahaina in Hawaii last week are estimated to be about $3.2 billion, according External link to catastrophe modeling firm Karen Clark & Co.

GoFundMe reports that there have been significant donations toward Maui wildfire victims through fundraisers on its site.
"We’re inspired by the outpouring of support from more than 250,000 donors who have raised over $30 million on GoFundMe to help individuals, families, and businesses affected by the wildfires in Maui. To make it easier for people who want to help those affected, GoFundMe has launched a centralized hub housing all verified fundraisers related to the Maui wildfires. Our Trust & Safety team is working around the clock to review fundraisers and ensure the community receives the support they need," said a spokesperson for GoFundMe in a press release.
"On our hub of verified fundraisers, you’ll find powerful examples of people helping their loved ones who lost homes and belongings, individuals raising money for certified charities, fundraisers for local businesses that were destroyed, Good Samaritans raising money for food and emergency supplies, and fundraisers to support the immediate needs of the Lahaina community," GoFundMe said in a press release. There are multiple fundraisers on GoFundMe set up to help the Lahaina community.
One is the , which provides relief grants to people impacted by the fires, and to local nonprofits who are supporting recovery efforts. So far, the fund has raised over $800,000. Any individuals with an active and verified GoFundMe related to the Maui wildfires may apply to receive a grant through the .
Another is , which is run by the Wayne Dyer Family Foundation. It has raised over $1.6 million for families impacted by the wildfires. Individuals who need help have the option of reaching out to the fundraiser organizer to have funds provided to them directly. A third one is , which benefits the Hawaii Community Foundation, a nonprofit overseeing the Maui Strong Fund.
A fourth one is , which has raised over $35,000 to purchase fuel for volunteer pilots to fly medical, toiletries, water, insulin, diapers, flashlights, tarps, and other supplies into Kapalua, West Maui Airport. This central hub assists donors in finding funds for people in specific areas, giving everyone a chance to help out their neighbors. GoFundMe notes that it is free to start a fund through them.
The best way to help a fundraiser gain support is by telling your story in at least one to three paragraphs, sharing the fundraiser when you're ready in multiple places on multiple occasions, posting an update within one week, and setting up bank transfers. GoFundMe says they monitor and verify fundraisers during humanitarian disasters to prevent misuse.
Should misuse occur, or if you suspect fundraiser misuse, every fundraiser has the option to be reported with the "Report Fundraiser" button. Once reported, GoFundMe will have a Trust & Safety specialist investigate the fundraiser. GoFundMe says they take all of these reports extremely seriously.

Following the devastating fire in Lahaina on the island of Maui, Anajak Thai and other L.A. restaurants are offering special menu items and dinners to raise funds for those impacted. Los Angeles restaurant owners are allocating percentages of their profits, hosting fundraisers and raising awareness for the Maui communities grappling with the tragedy of the recent fires. Hundreds of structures, homes and businesses were reduced to ash in what has become the century’s deadliest wildfire.
With the death toll of the Maui wildfires at 106, with 1,300 more people unaccounted for, Hawaiians and Angelenos alike are mourning the devastation of the historic town of Lahaina. These L.A. restaurants are doing what they can to rally support behind various relief funds. Roving tea truck and retailer Flowerhead Tea — soon to launch a shop in Highland Park — is raising funds for Maui now through Sept. 1. The tisane-based Hawaiian Haze iced tea blend is a favorite of owners Karina Vlastnik and Kendall Brinkley, and is made with dehydrated hibiscus, lemongrass and ginger in ode to Hawaii.
They’re donating all proceeds from this loose-leaf blend’s sale throughout the month, raising funds for nonprofit ʻĀina Momona. When ordered online, customers can also enter the code “WELOVEMAUI” for free shipping on orders over $40.
In Manhattan Beach, the Strand House is hosting a Maui fire relief benefit concert on Aug. 24 at 6 p.m. at its first floor, StrandBar. The 21-and-over event will feature live performances from local musicians like Al Kim, Joie Shettler and Jim Wheeler, along with the restaurant’s full food, beverage and cocktails menu. Tickets are available for $100, and 100% of ticket, food and drink sales will be donated to those who have lost homes and businesses to the Maui fires through the Hawaii Community Foundation, as well as to animals displaced and injured in a partnership with the Maui Humane Society.
At Culver City’s Citizen Public Market, Bar Bohemien has partnered with Campari for a tiki-themed night on Aug. 22 from 3 p.m. to midnight including specialty cocktails, giveaways, bites and a live DJ, with tropical attire encouraged. One dollar from every specialty drink will go towards the Maui Humane Society.
This week, Yang’s Kitchen in Alhambra is offering a loco moco brunch special, as well as kanpachi ginger scallion poke inspired by Off the Hook Poke Market’s ahi ginger scallion poke in Honolulu. The poke features dry-aged kanpachi from chef Liwei Liao’s Joint fish market in Sherman Oaks and is available for dinner, with limited supplies. Yang’s Kitchen will donate a portion of the profits from the kanpachi poke, as well the loco moco dish to the Hawaii Community Foundation’s Maui Strong Fund.
At East Hollywood bakery Friends & Family, Roxana Jullapat is raising funds all week long through her tropical “pineapple suns” pastry, which braids square croissant dough into vessels for fresh, roasted pineapple at the center. The proceeds of the pastries, which run $5.50 apiece, will be donated to the Maui Food Bank, which is collecting and distributing food, toiletries and other essentials in Central and South Maui.
In Sherman Oaks last Tuesday, The Times’ 2022 Restaurant of the Year Anajak Thai added Tamashiro-style and shoyu pokes and mochiko fried chicken to the Thai Taco Tuesday menu, with plans to donate a portion of the profits from those menu items to various Maui relief funds. Upon hearing that his chef friend Sheldon Simeon, owner of Tiffany’s and Tin Roof in Maui, was on the island cooking on behalf of the World Central Kitchen for families who have lost their homes and livelihoods there, Justin Pichetrungsi decided that he too could take action.
Soon after, Pichetrungsi posted a video on Monday to the Anajak Thai Instagram account announcing the “emergency TTT,” or Thai Taco Tuesday, to its followers. He also shared a link to the Chef Hui Maui Relief Fund, seeking to feed the displaced people of Maui and support damaged restaurants. After reaching out to friends and family living in Hawaii for help finding verified funds, Pichetrungsi is so far considering the Maui Strong Fund through the Hawaii Community Foundation, Maui United Way, or the Kāko’o Maui Fund. He also came across a comprehensive spreadsheet for people to send aid directly to impacted families in Maui.
ZEF BBQ, a weekend-only Simi Valley pop-up, was born out of pandemic necessity when owner-chef Logan Sandoval and his wife, Ana Lindsay, were struggling to generate income for their family. In the past, Sandoval’s menus have featured Hawaiian staples like pit-smoked house-made Spam musubi and Peking duck, and now the pair seeks to support other struggling business owners and community organizations affected by the Maui fires. “Every weekend we have a walk-up-only service called Super Secret Sundays,” said Sandoval.
“This is mine and my staff’s favorite day because we all come together and brainstorm menu items that we’ve been wanting to test out or just make better.” This past Sunday, ZEF BBQ dedicated the cherished day to Maui relief efforts by donating a large portion of sales, including 100% of Dole Whip sales, to the Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement. According the Sandoval, his team celebrated the event as a major success.
Their line is usually between 10 to 20 people he said, but at one point on Sunday, they had at least 80 to 90 people in line. Verdugo Bar in Glassell Park posted on its Instagram asking any followers with the funds to donate to the Go Fund Me linked in its bio to help the staff at Lahaina’s Dirty Monkey restaurant.
The Maui restaurant is listed as permanently closed on Google, and is calling for any help it can get to raise money for staff members trying to rebuild their homes and get back on their feet. Hermosa Beach’s RYLA plans to donate proceeds from its Tiki Thursday event to the Kokua Restaurant Hospitality Fund, which focuses efforts on providing immediate relief to the restaurant, bar and hospitality workers affected by the recent fires. Chef Ray Hayashi feels personally connected to the tragedy as he and close friend chef David LeFevre traveled every year to the Hawaii Food & Wine Festival where Hayashi also got engaged to RYLA chef de cuisine Cynthia Hetlinger. RYLA’s sister restaurant MB Post, owned by LeFevre, also plans to donate a portion of profits earned at this Friday’s lunch service to the Kokua Restaurant & Hospitality Fund.
At Lunetta in Santa Monica, chef Raphael Lunetta also is directing support to the Kokua Restaurant & Hospitality Fund. He hosted a coursed benefit dinner alongside chef Josiah Citrin of Santa Monica’s Mélisse and chef Suzanne Tracht of West Hollywood’s Jar called Flavors of Aloha: Supporting Hawaii’s Restaurant Community. The team of chefs rallied the support of their collective fan bases and plan to pool funds from the fundraiser.
Citrin and Lunetta’s connection to Hawaii traces back to their youth riding waves at the break wall. Ever since, Lunetta has formed relationships with esteemed Hawaiian culinary figures like Roy Yamaguchi, Allen Wong and Michele and Wade Ueoka, staying tethered to the Hawaiian food scene by annually attending the Hawaii Food & Wine Festival. Danielle Dorsey contributed to this report.

WILMINGTON — In the spirit of paying it forward, the Cape Fear community is raising funds for Maui wildfire relief efforts.
In 2018, Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real donated their time and talent to help Wilmington recover from Hurricane Florence. The band played a charity concert, which raised more than $65,000 in direct relief for the tri-county region.
To return the favor, program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn has launched a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Nelson calls home. “Lukas and his band showed our community compassion in our time of need, so I just felt compelled to start this fundraiser in an effort to show him our community was there for him the same way they were there for us,” Gunn said.
Wilmington Mayor Bill Saffo echoed Gunn’s sentiment. “Today, Lukas’ hometown is experiencing its own natural disaster, so I encourage those who are able to repay his kindness by supporting those affected by the wildfires on the island of Maui,” Saffo said.
As of Friday afternoon, the fundraiser has already surpassed its $15,000 goal with more than $16,000 from 323 donations, though Gunn encourages the community to keep contributing. “We recently reached our goal, but in the spirit of giving and knowing how bad this community’s been devastated, we’re going to leave the fundraiser open in hopes of continuing to raise much needed relief,” he said.
All donations will go directly to the Hawaii Community Foundation’s “Maui Strong Fund.” Its purpose is to provide financial resources that can be deployed quickly and support shelter, food, financial assistance and additional services to Hawaiians in need. As of Thursday, the fund has $43.8 million in donations.
More than 100 people have been killed in the devastating wildfires, according to CNN. The death toll is expected to rise as emergency crews dig through more than 2,000 burned homes and businesses. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told CNN Wednesday there were probably more than 1,000 residents still unaccounted for.
In total, the three wildfires — Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry — have consumed thousands of acres of land. The Maui wildfires, noted as the nation’s deadliest in more than a century, started Aug. 8 just after midnight as a perfect storm of strong winds and dry conditions. Maui has been under a drought, according to the national Integrated Drought Information System. The blaze’s official cause has not yet been determined, according to a report from Reuters.
Tips or comments? Email info@localdailymedia.com. Want to read more from PCD? Subscribe now and then sign up for our morning newsletter, Wilmington Wire, and get the headlines delivered to your inbox every morning.

Los Angeles may be 2,500 miles away from Lahaina, Maui, but the City of Angels is still doing their part to help the victims of the deadliest wildfire in the United States in over a century. All 12 professional sports teams in Los Angeles joined together on Thursday to donate a combined $450,000 to the American Red Cross relief efforts for those affected by the Lahaina wildfire.
The 12 professional sports teams involved are the Rams, Chargers, Lakers, Clippers, Sparks, Dodgers, Angels, Kings, Ducks, LA Galaxy, LAFC, and Angel City FC. Many of these teams have players from Hawaii on their roster, including Chargers' safety Alohi Gilman.
Get Southern California news, weather forecasts and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC LA newsletters.
In addition to their proximity to Southern California, there is a very robust Hawaiian community living in Los Angeles. Most of the local LA sports teams are broadcast on both radio and television in Hawaii, and some teams have even held their training camp or played preseason games on the islands.
The Lakers held training camp in Hawaii for over 25 years and recently held a televised reunion of the Showtime era teams on Maui last year. The Rams played a preseason game in Hawaii in 2019, and the Chargers have played multiple games in Hawaii including in 1961 and 1976.
The Angels even had a Triple-A team in Honolulu for several seasons between 1962 and 1970. In addition to the donation, the Rams will use their second preseason game this coming Saturday against the Las Vegas Raiders to help raise even more money for those affected by the Lahaina wildfire.
Both the sale and auction of custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts, and the proceeds of the in-game 50/50 raffle will all go to the American Red Cross. The shirts were designed by Maui based artist Saedene Ota and will be worn by Rams players, coaches, and staff during warm-ups. The blue and yellow shirts will incorporate the Rams "LA" logo into the word "Mālama," which is Hawaiian for "to care for and protect."
The shirts will then be auctioned off during the game at the Rams Foundation silent auction tables located on the 6th floor, section N concourse, as well as in the Lower American Airlines Plaza. The "Mālama Maui" shirts will also be available to the public at www.RamsFanShop.com starting Thursday, as well as on sale at The Equipment Room at SoFi Stadium on Saturday.
All profits from the sale of the shirts will also go to the Red Cross relief efforts. The shirts will be sold for $40.00. In addition to the t-shirts, any person who purchases a 50/50 raffle ticket at the game on Saturday will receive a special "Mālama Maui" pin (while supplies last). Anybody looking to join the 12 Los Angeles professional sports teams in supporting the Red Cross wildfire relief efforts can donate directly to redcross.org.

HONOLULU (KHON2) — A timeline of eyewitness accounts and official alerts shows just how chaotic things got on Maui, on what was predicted to be a red flag fire-risk day Tuesday, Aug. 8. Always Investigating dissects what happened and when — documenting the timeline through official alerts and eyewitness accounts.
The Maui Emergency Management Agency knew last week could get dangerous fast. On Monday, Aug. 7, MEMA issued warnings to its CivicAlert subscribers, and followers on social media, about extreme high wind conditions ahead that could topple power poles and lines. The National Weather Service and KHON2 News had also put out red flag warnings in statewide weather broadcasts ahead of that. On Tuesday, Aug. 8, the worst predictions started to manifest.
At 3:45 a.m., upcountry fire evacuations set in, first on Aulii Drive and then Hanamu Road. At 6:22 a.m. power poles started to topple in high winds in Lahaina, closing Honoapiilani Highway near Front Street. This won’t be the first road blocked by toppled poles and lines.
And then — the Lahaina spark. At 6:40 a.m., eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna went live on Facebook near Kelawea when he saw the first flickers of the Lahaina fire. “Hey, heads up the line is live on the ground right there,” Treu warned.
He told the news it lit up in an instant. “Soon as I hear the pop, all I heard is like electrical zzzt going on the ground…. and it landed in a bigger pile of dry grass and that just ignited,” he explained.
At 6:40 a.m. evacuations start near Lahaina Intermediate School. Then 7:03 a.m. a road closure near there for a fire, and at 8:19 a.m. Honoapiilani Highway closed near Aholo due to more downed poles.
A sigh of relief when just before 10 a.m. the county declares the Lahaina fire “100% contained,” reopening Lahainaluna Road afternoon.
“We thought was all contained, and then from there just went ahead about our day thinking that it was all done,” Treu said. But the trouble wasn’t over.
Around 2 p.m. another road closure, Honoapiilani near Lahainaluna. Then upcountry turns for the worse.
At 3:20 p.m., Piiholo and Olinda are under evacuation, with another road closure at 3:25 p.m. on Haleakala Highway. Meanwhile back in Lahaina winds whipped into a frenzy. Another road closed at 3:38 p.m., Lahianaluna near Honoapiilani and the bypass.
MEMA sent alerts again: 3:39 p.m. high wind, 3:40 p.m. red flag conditions, just as the upcountry blaze spreads. At 3:50 p.m. Kulalani upcountry is evacuated on county alerts and by the first statewide Emergency Alert System broadcast at 4:04 p.m.
That’s where emergency officials automatically take over the airwaves to announce an urgent message. Shortly after that, another statewide EAS at 4:16 p.m. announced an evacuation of Lahaina’s Kelawea area — right near where the first sparks flew.
“The winds just continued to just smoke the whole day and I guess that’s what just fueled the restarting,” Treu said. At 4:45 p.m. the county on social media told west side residents to shelter in place.
But again, in what seemed to be a pause in the threat, at 5:20 p.m. the county announces on social media that access in and out of Lahaina is reopened. Yet just eighteen minutes later, at 5:38 p.m., witness video shows Lahaina ablaze near Paunau and at 5:54 p.m. near Front Street. Winds were pushing the fire with the force and speed of a blowtorch, witnesses and fire experts explain.
Despite a full day of warnings across the island on multiple platforms, officials were out of time and out of options they were willing to use. But Andaya defends MEMA’s choice not to use the sirens in their fire alerts. Before dusk, Lahaina’s Front Street is engulfed.

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — President Joe Biden on Monday told survivors of Hawaii’s wildfires that the nation “grieves with you” and promised that the federal government will help “for as long as it takes” Maui to recover from damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.
Biden arrived in Maui 13 days after fire ravaged the western part of the island, killing at least 115 people. Standing near a severely burned 150-year-old banyan tree, the president acknowledged the “overwhelming” devastation but said that Maui would persevere through the tragedy.
Biden and first lady Jill Biden got a close-up look at the devastation, seeing block after block of hollowed out homes and other structures, charred cars, singed trees and piles of debris as his motorcade wound through Lahaina. They spent most of their time in the historic town of 13,000 people that was virtually destroyed by the flames.
The Bidens lingered briefly on the tarmac after arriving at Kahului Airport to console Hawaii Gov. Josh Green, his wife Jaime Green and members of Hawaii’s congressional delegation who greeted them. The president and first lady embraced each of their greeters before they boarded the Marine One helicopter for an aerial tour of the damage.
The Bidens also met with first responders and members of the community, and were briefed by state and local officials about the ongoing response. They also participated in a blessing of his visit by island elders.
They had interrupted a weeklong vacation in the Lake Tahoe area to visit Lahaina. Earlier Monday, the White House announced that Biden has named Bob Fenton, a regional leader at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to be the chief federal response coordinator for the Maui wildfires, overseeing the long-term recovery.
It will take years to rebuild Lahaina, where just about every building was obliterated. “We’re going to rebuild the way the people of Maui want to rebuild,” said Biden, adding that his administration would focus on respecting sacred lands, cultures and traditions.
Dozens gathered on the streets of Lahaina to watch Biden’s motorcade wind its way through the community. Some greeted the president enthusiastically, but others appeared to be waving their middle fingers at the motorcade.
Other island residents held up signs urging Biden “to listen to the people of Lahaina” and to send more aid. During a community event at Lahaina’s civic center, Biden praised the “remarkable resilience” he said he saw during his few hours in the community.
The president also spoke, as he often does when addressing communities touched by tragedy, of understanding the personal weight of devastating loss and the slow and painful process of recovering. Biden’s first wife, Neilia, and their 1-year-old daughter, Naomi, died in a car accident in 1972. He lost an adult son, Beau, to brain cancer in 2015.
“When things look the most bleak, that’s when we need faith,” said Biden, who spent 70 minutes after his remarks speaking with community members. Biden has faced criticism from some Republicans, including 2024 Republican frontrunner Donald Trump, for saying too little during the first days after the catastrophe. The White House, however, has pushed back, saying the president acted quickly and kept in close touch with the governor and other emergency officials as the crisis unfolded.
Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, said that as of Sunday about 85% of the affected area had been searched and nearly 2,000 people remained without power and 10,000 were without phone and internet. Water in parts of west Maui was unsafe to drink.
While immediate aid such as water, food and blankets has been readily distributed to residents, Schatz said cellphones, ID and other documents that people would need to help them enroll in longer-term aid programs were burned in the fires, adding more challenges to the application process. During his tour, Biden walked down a street from which many Lahaina residents made their harrowing escape from the flames.
An army of search and rescue teams with dozens of dogs have blanketed the area to help with recovery efforts. White House homeland security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall said some 500 to 800 people remain unaccounted for. Mayor Richard Bissen earlier Monday put the number of unaccounted for at 850.
Sherwood-Randall said the FBI has sent specialists to Maui to help with identification efforts. “How fast can we move to help people in need, and in particular, how can we help those in need who have the hardest time getting access to that help?” Sherwood-Randall said of Biden’s focus.
More than 1,000 federal officials remain on the ground to respond to the wildfires, according to the White House. The administration has distributed more than $8.5 million in aid to some 8,000 affected families, including $3.6 million in rental assistance, said FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell. Associated Press writers Aamer Madhani in Washington and Claire Rush in Portland, Ore., contributed to this report.

Japan's government said Wednesday it will extend $2 million as humanitarian aid to Hawaii to help with the damage caused by recent wildfires in Maui, as the death toll from the disaster has topped 100. The assistance, to be offered through organizations including the American Red Cross, is intended to cover evacuation site safety, food delivery and psychological support for those affected by the fires that first broke out on Aug. 8. "Japan and Hawaii have enjoyed a friendly relationship over the years and been engaging in active exchanges in various fields," Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi told reporters.

The South Korean government is pledging $2 million worth of aid to Hawaii to support relief efforts on Maui, where the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the last century destroyed the historic town of Lahaina with at least 99 confirmed deaths since Tuesday.
It’s the first pledge of support from a foreign government as Hawaii authorities continue to fight active wildfires across Maui and work to count and identify the dead in Lahaina. A Korean official told the Star-Advertiser that $1.5 million of its pledge will be in cash, and an additional $500,000 would be used to purchase drinking water, food blankets and other supplies from local Korean markets and deliver them to the state government to distribute.
Hawaii occupies a special place in the U.S.-South Korean alliance, which turned 70 this year. In the release, the South Korean Consulate said the aid carries “particular significance” as Hawaii is the place where Korean immigration to the United States began in 1903.
The first Koreans came to Hawaii to work the plantations, but the islands would in time become a destination for Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula and became a hotbed for the Korean independence movement. One of those exiled revolutionaries, Syngman Rhee, would return after World War II to become the Republic of Korea’s controversial first President. To this day, the ties between Hawaii and South Korea are deep.
According to the most recent data from the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, South Korea is Hawaii’s No. 2 source of international imports and No. 6 international export market. Car parts, fuel, food, cosmetics and other goods move between Hawaii and South Korea by ship and plane. Once a major recipient of foreign aid, the South Korean economy has boomed in recent decades, and the country has become a player on the global stage as a provider of foreign aid and as Korean cultural exports like dramas and music have become global sensations.

Organizations around the state and the world are rallying to support the people Maui in the wake of tragic wildfires that razed Lahaina to the ground and left at least 106 people dead.
Among those supporting Maui is the Republic of Korea, which has donated $2 million to support the recovery of Maui and its people. Of that money, $1.5 million in cash donations will go toward the Hawai‘i Community Foundation. Micah Kane, President and Chief Executive Officer of Hawai‘i Community Foundation, said this money will be the largest one-time contribution by any organization entity or country to date, adding it will have significant impact on the long- and short-term recovery efforts.
Many of the donations coming to Maui are going through the Hawai‘i Community Foundation, which is working with organizations and Maui County to get the resources where they are most needed. “We’re still in rapid response mode,” Kane said, adding essential needs like medical care and mental health care are a priority. The foundation has also been trying to support organizations providing communication services. Some of this new sum of money will help in those efforts.
Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke thanked the Republic of Korea adding the recovery of Lahaina is going to be a long haul. A coordinated effort between the state and Maui organizations and nonprofits is underway to collect, store and inventory supplies donated to Maui County to support victims of the wildfires in Kula and Lahaina. Luke asked that donations not be shipped directly to Maui County unless there is someone on island to receive it. Additionally, officials are asking that items not be dropped off at any of the shelters set up throughout central Maui to assist evacuees.

As Hawaii continues to grapple with the devastation of the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century, international aid is beginning to roll into the islands to support relief efforts on Maui after flames destroyed the historic town of Lahaina.
On Monday, the South Korean government announced it would contribute $2 million in aid for Maui and South Korean Consul General of Honolulu Lee Seo Young met with Lt. Gov. Silvia Luke on Wednesday. As Lee met with Luke, the Taipei Economic &Cultural Office in Honolulu, Taiwan’s de facto consulate in Hawaii, announced that the Taiwanese government would be pledging a cash donation of $500,000 to the Hawaii Community Foundation to aid in Maui relief.
In media release sent out Wednesday, TECO noted that this year marks 30 years since establishing “sister state” relationship between Hawaii and Taiwan, paving the way for sister city and county relationships across the islands. Maui County has a sister county relationship with Taiwan’s Pingtung County, which like Maui, is a tropical region known for tourism and agriculture. A Korean official told the Star- Advertiser that $1.5 million of the South Korean pledge is in cash, and an additional $500,000 would be used to purchase drinking water, food blankets and other supplies from local Korean markets in Hawaii and deliver them to the state government for distribution.
Hawaii occupies a special place in the history of both countries. Sun Yat-sen — the Chinese revolutionary who overthrew the Qing Dynasty and is regarded as the “father of Modern China” by both the governments in Beijing and in Taipei — moved to Hawaii at the age of 13 in 1878, where his older brother Sun Mei was working as a rice merchant and shopkeeper on Oahu. Sun Yat-sen would graduate from ‘Iolani School before continuing his education in Hong Kong.
Sun Mei moved to Maui where he opened the Kahului General Store and leased thousands of acres to establish the Sun Mei Ranch. Later, after Sun Yat-sen’s participation in a failed attempt to overthrow the Qing Dynasty, he and his family went into exile and returned to Hawaii to live on his brother’s Maui property.
The South Korean Consulate said in its statement to the Star- Advertiser that the Korean aid package carries “particular significance” because Hawaii is the place where Korean immigration to the United States began in 1903. The first Koreans came to Hawaii to work the plantations, but the islands would soon become a destination for Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula and became a hotbed for the Korean independence movement.
One of those exiled revolutionaries, Syngman Rhee, would become the Republic of Korea’s controversial first president. Hawaii is still deeply linked to both Taiwan and South Korea. According to the most recent data from the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, South Korea is Hawaii’s No. 2 source of international imports and No. 6 international export market, while Taiwan is Hawaii’s No. 10 source of international exports and No. 9 international export market.
The Maui fires began on the morning of Aug. 8 amid a mixture of dry conditions and strong winds from Hurricane Dora to the south. The powerful winds spread the flames extremely rapidly, straining Maui’s firefighting resources as firefighters battled multiple wildfires across the island simultaneously. Firefighting efforts continue on Maui and the death toll in Lahaina is expected to rise as authorities keep searching for human remains. Droughts and storms are becoming more commonplace in the Hawaiian Islands and around the world as global temperatures rise.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Maui County has released a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina. The hope is that many on the list are fine and simply haven’t checked with emergency personnel. The fear is that many are not.
“We’re releasing this list of 388 names because we know it will help the investigation,” said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier, in a video message posted online Thursday night. “We’re also balancing that because we know when this list comes out, it can and will cause pain for some folks.
The list (included below) includes no additional identifying information, such as ages or genders. The county said the list, compiled by the FBI, consists of those for whom authorities have a first and last name and the contact number of the person who reported the person missing.
Earlier this week, county officials put the total number of people who remained unaccounted for at more than 1,000 and pledged to release the list in hopes of tracking down any who are safe. By releasing a list of 388 names, it means the county and FBI are still trying to validate information for hundreds more who were reported missing.
It’s unclear if those names will also be released. If you recognize a name on the list and know the person to be safe, or if you have additional information about the person that may help locate them, you’re asked to call the FBI at (808) 566-4300 or email HN-COMMAND-POST@ic.fbi.gov as soon as possible. If you believe an individual is still unaccounted for and their name is not included on the validated list of names, you’re asked to email unaccounted@mpd.net to provide MPD with more information.
As of Thursday night, the death toll from the fire stood at 115. But the governor and Maui first responders have warned that number is likely to rise. More than two weeks after flames swept through Lahaina, fueled by winds gusting to 80 mph, the grueling search for remains in the ashes of Lahaina town, now the site of the deadliest U.S. wildfire in a century .
Recovery crews with cadaver dogs have finished searching one-story homes and businesses in Lahaina and have moved to multi-story structures, some of which are pancaked. At the same time, Maui firefighters and Ocean Safety personnel expanded their search in the water.
Authorities have also sought to prepare residents for the possibility that remains for some as-yet unknown number of people will never be found — and will eventually be presumed dead. At a news conference earlier this week, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen said authorities don’t have an estimate of how many they believe perished in the fire, in large because of the high count of individuals reported missing. Officials have also said they don’t know how many children are among the victims.
Chris (aka CJ) Delacruz Jr. Joseph M. (aka Lil Joe) Durante Jr. Jon Kaaihue Jr. Wayne Worthington Jr.
Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

SACRAMENTO — California announced Tuesday that it is sending wildfire response and recovery teams to assist in Maui, which has been devastated by wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people. A total of 101 state and local government personnel will be going to Hawaii.
That includes an incident management team comprised of 67 Cal Fire members and two members from the California Office of Emergency Services. Among the other personnel being deployed are forensic anthropologists, K-9 teams, search and rescue members, a Cal OES mass fatality incident management expert, wildfire debris removal and hazardous waste experts and a recovery professional in maximizing federal funding for communities.
Gov. Gavin Newsom said 100 personnel were also being sent to Oregon to assist with wildland fires there. "I've been in close contact with our neighbors in Hawaii and Oregon as they deal with these devastating wildfires, and they know that California has their back – we're doing everything we can to help," Newsom said.
The wildfires on Maui have been the deadliest in modern U.S. history. The historic town of Lahaina on the island was devastated by the fires. The death toll reached 99 on Monday, and Hawaiian officials said it could take up to 10 days to know the full death toll.

One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui is struggling with his boots. They’re new, obviously uncomfortable and making him walk funny. He keeps trying to kick them off, so his handler has tried everything, including duct tape and rubber bands, to hold them in place and help him focus on the vitally important job in front of him.
Prentiss, a 9-year-old Labrador retriever, is one of about 40 cadaver dogs doing the grueling work of searching through the rubble of Lahaina, sniffing for even the slightest trace of the more than 800 people still missing after the most lethal U.S. wildfire in a century. Human searchers have little hope of detecting the tiny fragments that remain of many victims, each of them somebody’s mom, dad, daughter or son. So the last hope for this paradisiacal island to find closure, for proper grieving and healing, rests with man’s best friend. That’s a lot of pressure, and the obstacles are almost as enormous as the responsibility.
First, it’s brutally hot; the tropical sun beats down on Prentiss’ thick, dark fur without remorse. The same goes for the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs. The dogs work in tag teams. Each can go only 15 to 20 minutes in the heat before they have to let their partner take over and retreat to the team truck, where the air conditioner is running full blast. “They don’t get tired, they get hot,” said firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers.
Then there’s the blistering pavement. The fire transformed most sources of shade — bushes, trees, buildings — to ash, so there’s little escape from the glaring sun. In the afternoon, the asphalt can exceed 150 degrees, Bartel said.
That’s why the boots must stay on. Trouble is, most of the footwear made for dogs isn’t really designed for scouring scorched earth after a catastrophe. They’re “booties” meant for “nice leisurely walks,” Bartel said. “We’re putting them to the test and blowing through them pretty quickly,” Bartel said.
That’s where the duct tape comes in, lots of it. Since the booties cover only the paws, the handlers have to wrap the tape higher and higher up the dogs’ legs.
They need the extra protection because the piles of ash can be several feet deep, and sometimes all that’s left of multi-story buildings after the 1,000-degree fire roared through. When the dogs plunge into those ash piles, they can land on buried, still blazing embers.
But these dogs, almost all of whom were selected from high-energy hunting breeds and have off-the-charts prey drive, don’t let pain stop them. Sometimes they don’t even yelp. “They just want to work, and it’s not until you get them back to the truck that you realize they’re injured,” Bartel said. The long, hot days and danger are worth it when the dogs detect someone, said firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler.
His dog, Harper, was the first on the L.A. team to make a find: a 4-inch fragment of bone buried in the charred maze of a junkyard. A group of homeless people had sought shelter there, Ruiz said.
A terrifying end to a hard life. Harper, a 7-year-old female who greets strangers with soft brown eyes and a wagging tail, knows something about hard life and unpredictable twists of fate. Her journey to the western shore of Maui started about three years ago in South Dakota when police raided a house packed with more than 20 neglected dogs, Ruiz said. She must have impressed those first rescuers with her energy and intelligence because, instead of winding up at a kennel waiting for adoption, she made her way through the shelter system and eventually wound up halfway across the country, in Santa Paula, at a highly selective search-dog training program. At about 4 years old, she was already long in the tooth for the demanding course, competing against much younger pups, but few could match her energy and determination. “She’s all go and no brake,” Bartel said.
That training program is where she met her current work partner, Six. He was the last in a litter from a breeder who, not the sentimental type, named the puppies 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, tattooing the numerals on the inside of each dog’s ear. Six wasn’t only small for a Lab; he has a leaky heart valve, lowering his value and turning him into a castaway. But somehow, he, too, impressed enough people along the way to land a spot in the training school.
When they’re not shouldering the enormous responsibility of their day jobs — it’s no exaggeration to say the eyes of the world are on them now — the dogs live with their handlers and hang out with their families, just like unemployed dogs. Harper goes on vacation with Ruiz. Six would sleep in Bartel’s bed every night if his girlfriend had her way.
But strap them into their work harnesses emblazoned with “County of Los Angeles Fire Dept.” patches, and their extraordinary abilities become obvious.
After racing around a search area, sticking their noses in every crack and crevice, the dogs sit down if they find something. Then their partner is led to the same area to see if they smell it, too. When two dogs confirm a hit, their handlers call in forensics experts waiting nearby to investigate further and address the remains.
For their handlers, the psychological terrain is almost as delicate to navigate as the rubble. The dogs need to be at least a little hyped-up and excited to do their jobs. But the handlers have to be careful not to celebrate too much with them when they make a find.
The police officers and many of the National Guard troops in the search area are from Maui, some from Lahaina. Those remains could be somebody they loved. It’s tricky, “because the dogs are only going to work so long before they get that reward,” Bartel said.
The reward is a ball. An orange rubber chewy ball. No food is required. These are Labs, after all.
Anybody who has shared their life with one will understand. Workdays for the dogs usually start around 6 a.m., when it’s still cool, and end when it gets too hot, around 3 p.m. Everyone on the team has to undergo a thorough decontamination at quitting time. That’s for health reasons and out of respect: Human ash could be mixed in the dust that covers the dogs and handlers head to toe. Once finished, the handlers load the dogs into the truck and head to a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country. The work of searching charred rubble for human remains weighs heavily on all the men and women involved.
There’s no escaping that. Talking it through with one another helps, but so does a tail wag and a nuzzle from a co-worker who has seen it all and rolls with it.
Harper and Six become therapy dogs at the hotel, Ruiz said; they’re pretty popular. Before the fire, that hotel, the Sheraton Maui Resort and Spa, attracted tourists from around the globe.
Its chief draw was the beautiful beach that serves as its backyard. As water dogs, the Labradors are drawn to that beachfront as well. Each day after work, they drag their handlers to the shore and wind down by fetching sticks thrown into the surf.
The firefighters seemed guarded talking about that aspect of their days on Maui. There has been so much debate on social media over the ethics of tourism after the fire and the need to show respect to those enduring unspeakable loss. But so far, nobody has objected to these most essential four-legged workers cooling off in the ocean after a hard day on the job.

A brush fire burned 7 acres on Saturday and prompted Maui authorities to briefly evacuate residents from a neighborhood of Lahaina — just a few miles from the site recently ravaged by blazes — before firefighters brought it under control. Firefighters doused flames from above using a helicopter and with hoses on the ground, said John Heggie, a spokesperson for Maui County's Joint Information Center.
The fire prompted an evacuation order for a residential area of Lahaina in the hills above Kaanapali resort hotels, the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency said. The fire was burning in the Kaanapali Hillside from Anapuni Loop to West Mahipulu, the agency said.
Early Saturday evening, Maui County officials said that forward progress on the fire had been halted and evacuation orders had been lifted. It was 85% contained, officials said.
At least 115 people were killed and more than 2,200 structures destroyed when a wildfire tore through downtown Lahaina on Aug. 8, one of several that broke out that day on the island. Minimal rains have pushed the area into drought.
On Thursday, Maui County officials released the names of 388 people unaccounted for since wildfires broke out, the first such list to be issued. However, within a day of its release, more than 100 of those on the list or their relatives came forward to say they're safe, the FBI said Friday. Officials told CBS News that it doesn't necessarily mean that those 100-plus have been removed from the list, because that new information still needs to be vetted and confirmed.
On Saturday afternoon, Maui County officials reported that so far 99% of the Lahaina burn area had been canvassed for human remains by hundreds of federal personnel and dozens of cadaver dogs. The Lahaina fire has burned 3.39 acres and is 90% contained. The cause remains under investigation.
On Friday, Maui County Officials announced that the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency had a new interim chief, Darryl Oliveira, after its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, resigned last week amid criticism for his agency's response to the Lahaina blaze. Oliveira is the former Hawaii Fire Department chief and also served as the head of the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency.
Andaya resigned Aug. 17, just one day after he publicly defended his controversial decision not to activate the island's warning sirens when the Lahaina wildfire was spreading. Andaya argued that sounding the sirens could have created confusion by sending Lahaina residents into the path of the blaze because they may have thought the sirens were signaling a tsunami, not a wildfire.
"The public is trained to seek higher ground in the event that the sirens are sounded," Andaya said in the Aug. 16 news conference. "Had we sounded the sirens that night, we were afraid that people would have gone mauka (mountainside), and if that was the case, they would have gone into the fire," he added. Maui County Thursday also said it had sued Hawaiian Electric Company over the fires, saying the utility negligently failed to shut off power despite exceptionally high winds and dry conditions.

A California woman has been named as the first tourist to have died in the devastating Maui wildfires. Officials identified 72-year-old Theresa Cook from Pollock Pines in northern California as among the victims of the deadly blaze in the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina. Some 115 deaths have been confirmed following the deadliest wildfire in more than a century in the United States. The unconfirmed list of missing people currently stands at 1,100 names.
Hawaiian officials also pleaded with relatives of those missing to come forward and give DNA samples, saying the low number provided so far threatens to hinder efforts to identify any remains discovered in the ashes. President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden met with first responders and survivors on Monday and promised that the federal government would be with them “for as long as it takes” to rebuild the community. Survivors were also voicing fears of a potential wave of land grabs by realtors and investors that could push Hawaiian locals from the island.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) -
The claim that firefighting efforts have been hampered by legal rulings in water was challenged by state Supreme Court justices in a hearing Wednesday. That claim was repeated by Gov. Josh Green after fire destroyed Lahaina and by the state attorney general in a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree.
On Wednesday, state Deputy Attorney General Miranda Steed told the court that Crabtree was not allowing the state to appeal his ruling, which apportioned water in Central Maui to the county, traditional stream users, like taro farmers, and private property owners. The ruling set no specific amount of water for firefighting, although the county was free to use water from its daily allotment of 7.5 million gallons. Eddins quoted the Sierra Club’s outraged response to the motion.
He then asked the state if it wanted to walk the statement back. Justice Sabrina McKenna then asked an attorney for Maui County whether it was true that the judge’s decision meant the county lacked water for firefighting. The attorney added that to fight all the fires that week, the amount of water used was far less than the amount available to Maui or other users. Steed argued other users who might have had to fight fires might have had less stream water available and that the amount of water firefighters would need included enough water in reservoirs to drop buckets and retrieve water to drop on the flames.
She also said fire fighting and land management agencies can’t have doubts about the water available to them in an emergency. But in her closing remarks, Steed seemed to do damage control. The justices had previously asked her if state Attorney General Anne Lopez and the rest of the administration were aware of her argument.
The attorney for the Sierra Club, David Frankel, said the filing was so outrageous the court should punish the attorney general for filing it. “BLNR’s petition was filed under false pretenses,” Frankel said. The court didn’t rule Wednesday.
This was the first round in the water conflict between the Green Administration and water advocates. Another lawsuit is pending over the state’s reassignment of the deputy director for the water commission. He was supported by environmentalists but disliked by developers. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

The Hawaii Supreme Court Thursday denied a state petition that included a request to roll back court orders so more water could be allocated to Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui Irrigation following the Upcountry fires earlier this month.
In a petition filed on Aug. 9, a day after wildfires broke out Upcountry, the state said that “there is not enough fire reserve water in Central Maui” due to an earlier Environmental Court decision to reduce the permitted amount of water for the companies. A&B and EMI’s complex water diversion system supplies farming in Central Maui as well as Maui County customers Upcountry.
“I am glad the supreme court saw through the unfounded and shameless claims of the attorney general and Alexander and Baldwin in this latest water grab. What they did and tried to do was inexcusable,” Wayne Tanaka, director of the Sierra Club of Hawai’i, said in an email Thursday afternoon.
In November last year, the state Board of Land and Natural Resources approved permits that would allow up to 40.49 million gallons per day to be diverted from East Maui streams. It also denied Sierra Club a contested case hearing, board minutes show. In June, Judge Jeffrey Crabtree, who also serves as the senior Environmental Court judge for the First Circuit, lowered the amount of water A&B and EMI can take from East Maui streams to 31.5 mgd.
He also ruled that the BLNR must hold a contested case hearing upon request if it considered issuing new revocable permits for 2023. After the state filed a petition asking to reinstate the BLNR’s original decision and water allocation, oral arguments were held Wednesday before the Hawaii Supreme Court.
State Deputy Attorney General Miranda Steed said during the hearing that not only Maui County firefighters had to battle the fire but also the state Department of Land and Natural Resources’ Division of Forestry and Wildlife personnel. The state said that Mahi Pono was also assisting with firefighting efforts.
Sierra Club attorney David Kimo Frankel said at the hearing that the “petition was filed under false pretenses” and mischaracterizes the Environmental Court’s actions and statements, and that the amount of water allocated provided adequate supply to fight the fire. In court documents, Maui County, which did not take a position in the matter, said that there was enough water to fight the fires in Central Maui under both the BLNR permit with a higher water allocation or Crabtree’s orders with a lower allocation. * Staff Writer Melissa Tanji can be reached at mtanji@mauinews.com.

Maui police and the FBI announced at a news conference Friday evening, that after releasing a list of 388 people considered missing, the public had helped identify and take as many as 100 people off that list. "We have had hundreds of contacts come in.
That's great news for hose who come off the list, and it's heartbreaking for those who don't," said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier. "We continue to be mindful of our families that still have unaccounted loved ones," said Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen.
Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation have been in Maui for two weeks now. Their mission on Friday, now coming to an end.
"The recovery efforts are at 99%. We're going to finish up with the urban search and rescue today," said Chief Pelletier.
The search teams have faced big challenges. "It's hot, it's difficult terrain with debris from the structures that burned and a lot of structures to cover and search. Almost 2,000 structures in about a six-and-a-half [to] seven-square mile area," said Contra Costa County Asst.
Fire Chief Jeff Peter, who is a liaison officer with the National Urban Search and Rescue System. Peter is among the Bay Area responders who have been in Maui since August 11 helping with the 40 canine search teams looking for remains. "Those dogs come from throughout the country.
There are several California dogs. I believe we have one of our human remains dogs from Oakland, which is the sponsoring agency for the task force," Peter said. Among the California canines, are three black labs trained by the Search Dog Foundation in Southern California. "The dogs are working in shifts and because of the heat and humidity, we know they are working in somewhat shorter shifts than they might in a different environment," said Denise Sanders a Search Dog Foundation spokesperson.
Stream KTVU on your TV by downloading Fox Local on your Roku, Amazon Fire, AndroidTV or AppleTV device for free. More details here.
The heat also is prompting the military to bring in critical water supplies. "This Sunday, the military is flying in two 2,000-gallon water systems in support of the county's water supply and how we can help," said Major General Kenneth Hara, director of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Army commanders said Friday, that teams have been searching for victims' remains along a 4-mile stretch of water along the coastline. "We absolutely need your patience, continued prayers, and we need to persevere," said Maui Police Chief Pelletier.

Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui have displaced thousands of residents, destroyed parts of a centuries-old town, and killed at least 96 people. The disaster is one of the deadliest US wildfires in recent years. The fast-moving fires, fanned by the winds of a distant hurricane, exploded overnight and moved so quickly that some residents jumped into the ocean to escape the flames and smoke. Crews are continuing to battle the fires, which have burnt through multiple neighborhoods, including the historic town of Lahaina.
“We just had the worst disaster I’ve ever seen. All of Lahaina is burnt to a crisp. It’s like an apocalypse,” said Mason Jarvi, a Lahaina resident who escaped.
The state has opened five evacuation shelters and at least 4,000 tourists were still trying to leave western Maui, said Ed Sniffen of the Hawaii department of transportation. Firefighters are continuing to battle three major blazes and authorities have closed the western portion of the island to everyone but emergency workers and evacuees. The fires appear to have burned first in vegetation and then rapidly spread into populated areas as wind gusts of over 60mph rocked the island. The conflagration swept into coastal Lahaina with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in a town center that dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places.
Residents raced on to crowded roads, some of which were blocked with flaming debris. The US Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had jumped into the water to escape.
“This was a classic wildland urban interface fire where there was a vegetation fire but it moved into an urban area and started burning structure to structure,” said the climate scientist Daniel Swain. The cause of the fires has not been determined but they broke out as the island faced strong winds and low humidity that the National Weather Service had warned would bring high fire danger with the risk of rapid spread. Hawaii was facing drought conditions and was in the midst of its dry season when Hurricane Dora, several hundred miles away, brought especially strong winds. The islands are sandwiched between high pressure to the north and a low pressure system associated with Dora, several hundred miles away, said Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu.
The differences in air pressure drove unusually strong trade winds that fanned the destructive flames. The winds, strengthened by the hurricane, knocked out power lines and, moving downslope, contributed to the extreme spread of flames. Downslope winds are drivers of the highest impact fires, Neil Lareau, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Nevada, Reno, said on Twitter. Downslope wind-driven fires have been responsible for 60% of structures lost and 52% of deaths in wildfires in the American west since 1999, according to a 2023 study. The climate crisis, driven by fossil fuel use, is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, including wildfires like the ones Maui is grappling with.
Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii, said the wet season could spur plants like Guinea grass, an invasive species found across parts of Maui, to grow as quickly as 6in (15cm) a day and reach up to 10ft (3 meters) tall. That grass creates a tinderbox that’s ripe for wildfire as it dries out.
Climate change not only increases the fire risk by driving up temperatures, but also makes stronger hurricanes more likely. In turn, those storms could fuel stronger wind events like the one behind the Maui fires. Experts warn disasters such as the one unfolding on Maui are driven by multiple factors, but that the climate crisis is an undeniable contributor. The situation in Hawaii recalled scenes of devastation elsewhere in the world this summer, as wildfires caused by record heat forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other parts of Europe, and Canada suffered unusually severe fires.

Michael Walker, Hawaii’s fire protection forester, urged state lawmakers last year to make a relatively meager financial commitment to boost wildfire preparedness: about $1.5 million. That money, in the form of a bill that would have funded new firebreaks, livestock grazing and water infrastructure for firefighting, was meant to ensure some safety from the nonnative and highly flammable grasses that cover a large part of Hawaii. The bill died in committee. The fires that last week destroyed Lahaina and killed at least 110 people were driven by some factors outside of local officials’ control, like drought conditions and hurricane-strength winds. But the proliferation of quick-burning grass fuels and the lack of action and funding to address them loom as the biggest missed opportunity — and one that highlights the challenges state and local officials face in taking action to head off natural disasters. Wildfire experts in Hawaii warned for years that overgrown grasses put communities like Lahaina at extreme risk for wildfire destruction, but officials struggled to fund projects and introduce policies used elsewhere in the country to reduce danger. This meant fallow fields often sat unused, providing more land for the grasses to spread — in many cases, the real estate value of land exceeds what farmers can pay to lease it. Mark Thorne, a rangeland scientist and a board member of the nonprofit Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization, said there aren’t any incentives or mandates to keep the landscape clear of grasses.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The wildfires that ripped through Hawaii on Tuesday and Wednesday are “unnerving,” and comparable to the landscape-altering wildfires that are common in the West, said Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University. That’s because the human-caused climate crisis has exacerbated the hot and dry conditions that allow wildfires to ignite and grow in many parts of the planet.
Although she said it’s hard to say that the climate crisis is linked to this particular event without a thorough analysis, it is possible to break down the conditions that primed the environment for these wildfires to occur. While scientists are still trying to fully understand how the climate crisis will affect Hawaii, they have noted that drought will get worse as global temperature increases. As heat sets in, the dried-out land and vegetation can provide fuel for wildfires, which can swiftly turn deadly if strong winds fan the flames into communities.
Maui has moderate drought covering more than one-third of the island, with some areas seeing severe drought, according to the US Drought Monitor. And the areas in drought coincide with some of the fires.
Drought conditions are becoming more extreme and common in Hawaii and other Pacific islands, according to the US National Climate Assessment released in 2018. Scientists noted in that report that the rainfall has generally been decreasing in Hawaii over time, with the number of consecutive dry days increasing. As a result, Fleishman said the availability of water has not only decreased for people but also for plants that require more water to thrive.
And in parts of Hawaii, there have been drastic changes in plant species. A 2018 report from the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization found that humans have introduced nonnative, fire-prone grasses and shrubs to the islands, which has allowed wildfire threats to increase exponentially. Nonnative species, which are critical fire ignitions, now cover nearly a quarter of Hawaii’s total land area.
Wind patterns are another contributing factor that may have some fingerprints of climate change, she said. High winds, such as the ones that helped fan the flames in Maui, are more likely going to dry out vegetation, air and soil, which could spark wildfires. “When those strong winds hit, if you already have the heat and the dryness and if you have a spark, a wildfire becomes more likely to grow rapidly,” she added. Fleishman said she is hopeful that these places will have some time to prepare for a hotter and drier future.

The reason is the long-running battle over west Maui’s most precious natural resource: water. That’s why, on Tuesday 8 August, when Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao was fleeing the fires in Lahaina, she grabbed a bag of clothes, some food – and something a little unconventional: a box filled with water use permit applications.
Despite her personal calamity, Tereariʻi, a grassroots attorney, already knew that the fight for Maui’s future was about to intensify, and at its heart would not be fire, but another element entirely: water. Specifically, the water rights of Native Hawaiians, rights that a long parade of plantations, real estate developers, and luxury resorts have been stifling for nearly two centuries.
As the flames approached, Tereariʻi feared that, under cover of emergency, those large players might finally get their chance to grab west Maui’s water for good. She also knew something else: that the only force with a hope of stopping that theft would be organized grassroots communities – even though those very communities were already stretched to breaking point saving lives and searching for lost loved ones.
Disaster capitalism – the well-worn tactic of exploiting moments of extreme collective trauma to rapidly push through unpopular laws that benefit a small elite – relies on this cruel dynamic. As Lee Cataluna, an Indigenous Maui-born journalist, observed recently, the people on the frontlines of disaster are necessarily focused on “survival stuff. Announcements.
Services. Instructions.
Help. Go here to get gas. Look at this list to see if your husband’s name is there” – not on coercive real estate deals or backroom policy moves. Which is exactly why the tactic too often succeeds.
Disaster capitalism has taken many forms in different contexts. In New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, there was an immediate move to replace public schools with charter schools, and to bulldoze public housing projects to make way for gentrifying townhouses.
In Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria in 2017, the public schools were once again under siege, and there was a push to privatize the electricity grid before the storm had made landfall. In Thailand and Sri Lanka after the 2004 tsunami, valuable beachfront land, previously stewarded by small-scale fishers and farmers, was seized by real estate developers while their rightful occupants were stuck in evacuation camps. It’s always a little different, which is why some Native Hawaiians have taken to calling their unique version by a slightly different term: plantation disaster capitalism.
It’s a name that speaks to contemporary forms of neocolonialism and climate profiteering, like the real estate agents who have been cold-calling Lahaina residents who have lost everything to the fire and prodding them to sell their ancestral lands rather than wait for compensation. But it also places these moves inside the long and ongoing history of settler colonial resource theft and trickery, making clear that while disaster capitalism might have some modern disguises, it’s a very old tactic. A tactic that Native Hawaiians have a great deal of experience resisting. Which brings us back to what was in that box that Tereariʻi rescued, and the place of water in this fateful moment.
For over a century, water across Maui Komohana, the western region of the island, has been extracted to benefit outside interests: first large sugar plantations and, more recently, their corporate successors. The companies – including West Maui Land Co (WML) and its subsidiaries, as well as Kaanapali Land Management and Maui Land & Pineapple Inc – have devoured the island’s natural resources to develop McMansions, colonial-style subdivisions, luxury resorts and golf courses where cane and pineapple once grew. This historical and modern plantation economy has taken a tremendous toll on water in particular, draining Indigenous ecologies of their natural moisture. Lahaina, once known as the Venice of the Pacific, has been transformed into a parched desert, which is part of what has made it so vulnerable to fire. Plantation skimming wells dried up Mokuhinia, an at least 15-acre freshwater fishpond, that nourished Mokuʻula, an island within the pond that was the seat of the Hawaiian Kingdom.
In the early 1900s, the plantation filled Mokuhinia with dirt, and eventually a baseball field and parking lot appeared over the sacred site. Even long after most of those original plantations closed, the infrastructure and dynamics of water theft remained. Today, many Native Hawaiian communities, who have lived in Maui Komohana since time immemorial, remain cut off from water for their basic needs, including drinking, laundry and traditional crop irrigation.
For instance, Lauren Palakiko, whose family has resided in Kauaʻula for centuries and has priority water rights under the law, last year testified at a state water commission hearing that she had to bathe her baby in a bucket because not enough water reached her home. That’s because the streams that once flowed through their valley are diverted for luxury subdivisions, which often occupy plantation-controlled lands.
It’s a situation that has left many Native families with no access to county water lines (which also means no fire hydrants) as well as no paved roads to escape the fires that increasingly threaten their homes and lives. For example, the Native Hawaiian families of Kauaʻula valley, which flanks Lahaina, are beholden to Launiupoko Irrigation Co (LIC), a subsidiary of WML, because LIC owns the valley’s plantation-era water system.
It takes nearly all of Kauaʻula Stream to service affluent estates in a neighboring valley and shuts off water completely to the Kauaʻula families’ homes when it alleges that there is not enough water to both sell to its customers and comply with the water commission’s stream protection standard. The climate emergency has only deepened these tensions, worsening droughts and, as the world now knows, creating conditions ripe for wildfires.
Over the last five years, fires have ravaged Kauaʻula valley, intensifying the wars over who has the right to access scarce water, including for critical firefighting uses. In this high-stakes context, growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities have organized to assert their water rights, which are supposed to have the highest protection under Hawaii law, including its constitution, statutory water code, and landmark Hawaii supreme court precedents.
Native Hawaiians across Maui Komohana have partnered with lawyers for nearly three decades in pursuit of restorative justice, most recently with pro bono attorneys, like Tereariʻi, and students at Ka Huli Ao Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law at the University of Hawaii’s Richardson School of Law. Together, the communities have been fighting for their right to manage their own water rather than watch as it is diverted for often frivolous uses.
June 2022 saw a historic victory: heeding the overwhelming demands of Native Hawaiians and other residents, the water commission voted unanimously to designate west Maui as a surface and groundwater management area. Under Hawaii’s water code, this designation invokes the commission’s permitting authority to protect priority Native Hawaiian rights and the environment over the historical and ongoing overexploitation of water by plantations and developers. After protracted struggle, and despite predictable opposition from industry, the community and the water commission prevailed, instituting a new permitting system that the community hoped would restore public control over water that had been stolen for over a century. The Palakiko family and others began filling out water use permit applications requesting water for their household needs, like bathing their babies, and also water for Indigenous wetland agriculture.
But here’s the cruelest irony: the deadline to submit those permit applications to the water commission was on Monday 7 August. And the fire that devoured Lahaina was the very next day.
The Hawaii governor’s administration wasted no time in issuing emergency proclamations that suspended a series of laws, including Hawaii’s “state water code, to the extent necessary to respond to the emergency”. The plantation successors leapt into action, attempting an end run around the designation process that they had been unsuccessful in stopping before the emergency proclamation. In the days after the fires, WML demanded the water commission suspend protections for streams across Maui Komohana – even in areas untouched by fire – and insinuated that the commission’s deputy director, Kaleo Manuel, who had been the agency’s public face throughout the designation process, was to blame for the destructive fire.
The commission chair granted the request, allowing the corporation to divert the streams to fill the reservoirs that service its luxury developments. WML finally requested that the entire designation process “be suspended and ultimately modified”.
Its own executive publicly stated: “I would love to see it gone” – a move denounced by the Earthjustice managing attorney Isaac Moriwake as an attempt to “use this tragedy for cheap advantage”. Then, on Wednesday, with searches for survivors still very much under way, the administration announced it was “re-deploying” Manuel, effectively relieving him of all duties and banishing him to an unknown different post. The move has left the commission without an administrative leader. This is a classic case of the most craven disaster capitalism: a small elite group using a profound human tragedy as their window to roll back a hard-won grassroots victory for water rights, while removing civil servants who pose a political inconvenience to the administration’s pro-developer agenda.
Many Maui Komohana communities refuse to accept WML’s rewriting of history. They know, for example, it was actually high winds that prevented helicopters from fighting the fires, and when they were ultimately used, seawater proved more accessible.
They also understand that the desiccated conditions that made the region so vulnerable are a result of over a century of settler colonialism, in which Indigenous resources have been hoarded by the plantations and their successors. As Hawaii’s poet laureate, Brandy Nālani McDougall, explained, if “water was allowed to flow, where it was allowed to be created and continued to feed and nurture everyone it should, this wouldn’t have happened”.
If there is a cause for hope, it’s that Maui’s people have learned from their history. Yes, irreplaceable historical and cultural artifacts have been lost to the flames but not the teachings that those artifacts represent.
Native Hawaiians know what their rights are – to stay on their ancestral lands, to restore streamflows to those lands, and to ensure their Indigenous lifeways will persevere in the face of a climate crisis fueled by colonial pillage. Indeed, those traditional lifeways historically restored abundance to the islands, while plantation mismanagement has turned the land into a desert. That’s why grassroots organizers like Tereariʻi knew to take that box of precious papers relating to water rights, filled with notes collected during careful community engagement and consultation.
This hard-won knowledge is also why, as soon as the real estate developers started circling, local residents began organizing to call out disaster profiteering. Many have also committed to securing the resources required to get families back into rebuilt homes – and to be the authors and architects of their own post-disaster reconstruction, a process grounded in aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources. That ethos is the reason that water is a public trust in Hawaii, not owned by anyone – not the governor, WML or even Native Hawaiians with ancestral ties to the resource.
Instead, under Indigenous law, water is zealously stewarded for present and future generations so that all can thrive. While politically inconvenient for some, this principle is what will preserve life on these fragile islands.
Aloha ʻāina enabled Native Hawaiians to flourish in Hawaii for a millennium, and it’s precisely this kind of biocultural knowledge that is needed to navigate the path forward in a time of climate crisis. Hawaii is indeed in an emergency, but it needs emergency proclamations that operationalize aloha ʻāina, not ones that push it aside by opportunistically suspending inalienable water laws and dismissing diligent public servants. What this governor does next will determine if Maui Komohana will remain a space for Indigenous and other local families like the Palakikos, or if companies like WML and its affluent customers are empowered to complete their takeover of land and water in west Maui.
Right now, the eyes of the world are on Maui, but many don’t know where to look. Yes, look to the wreckage, the grieving families, the traumatized children, the incinerated artifacts, and donate what you can to community-led groups on the ground. But look below and beyond that too.
To the aquifers and streams, and the plantation-era diversion ditches and reservoirs. Because that’s where the water is, and whoever controls the water controls the future of Maui.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

Professional fire investigators hired by the state attorney general have been probing the policies and performance of the state and Maui County during the Aug. 8 wildfires that killed at least 115 and displaced about 4,300 people.
State Attorney General Anne E. Lopez announced Thursday the selection of the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization, as the third party that would handle the state’s investigation. FSRI’s team of former firefighters, including inspectors, fire scientists and incident commanders, started work on Maui Aug. 24.
They will look into how Maui County and state agencies coordinated emergency alerts, evacuations, firefighting, communications and other aspects of the response to the wildfires, which destroyed more than 2,200 structures, caused about $5.5 billion in damage and severely set back the island’s economy. The purpose of the state’s investigation is to collect facts to be able to understand the timeline of events on Aug. 8, Lopez said. “The purpose of this is to make sure this never happens again, period. We need to know what happened.
We need to know what functioned well, what didn’t, so we can make recommendations for how the state and county should proceed going into the future,” she said. Lopez and her team will be briefed on FSRI’s progress and findings every two weeks. None of the FSRI team are trained criminal investigators, but Lopez vowed to turn over any evidence of a crime to her department’s investigators.
Lopez spent 24 hours on Maui on Aug. 24, meeting with FSRI’s team, Mayor Richard Bissen, firefighters who battled the Lahaina fire, and survivors. She also visited the Maui Emergency Management Agency and met with Maui’s corporation counsel, Victoria J. Takayesu. She had the opportunity to travel through Lahaina.
The state’s investigation is one of many inquests into the deadliest U.S. wildfire in 100 years. Unlike California, Hawaii has not passed state statutes creating criminal penalties for large wildfires that allow for prosecutions like the one Butte County District Attorney Michael Ramsey conducted following the 2018 Camp fire. That prosecution ended with Pacific Gas and Electric Co. pleading guilty to 84 counts of manslaughter.
The attorney general’s investigation comes amid a series of lawsuits filed against Hawaiian Electric and Maui County by fire victims and investors. Maui County has also sued Hawaiian Electric to determine civil liability for the fires. FSRI’s investigators are working while county and private attorneys seek evidence through discovery, the county conducts an after-action report of its emergency management and the Maui Fire Department and U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives investigate the cause and origin of the Lahaina fire.
She said she does not believe quick answers are possible. A thorough, transparent investigation will help restore people’s faith in the systems set up to keep them safe and what needs to happen moving forward.
“I don’t know that people will ever have closure. That’s obviously not my area of expertise. But I am committed … to find all of the facts … to come up with recommendations … to make sure this never happens again,” she said.
FSRI is a research institute dedicated to “addressing the world’s unresolved fire safety risks” and emerging dangers, according to a news release from the state. Its focus is on government agency actions up to and during the first 24 to 72 hours of the Lahaina fire and its aftermath, according to the state. The investigation findings will be addressed in three phases, with the final report expected in late 2024.
Anyone with footage of the Aug. 8 fires in Lahaina is asked to email it to maui@ul.org. FSRI’s work does not include an analysis of the cause of the ignition or reignition of the fire, according to the company.
Lopez will share information with the community at the end of each phase and when the investigation wraps up. An Incident Analysis Report will be produced that includes review of policies and actions of state and county agencies in preparing for and responding to the incident.

At her home in Waianae, a small town that hugs Oahu’s picturesque west coast, Samantha DeCorte worries that her family is living on a ticking fire bomb.
“We’re on one of the driest spots on the island,” she said, an area awash in the same types of dried vegetation that helped transform the Maui wildfire into a raging monster that destroyed Lahaina. Across the chain of Hawaiian islands — notably the larger, more populated islands of Hawaii and Oahu — many residents are grieving and fearing that a West Maui disaster could strike their communities.
As of Friday in Lahaina, at least 115 people had been confirmed dead, with 385 missing and more than 2,000 structures destroyed. Damage projections were as high as $6 billion.
Hawaiians are on edge because the conditions that fueled the fast-moving inferno are all around them. Their islands are plagued by sprawling fallow fields — a legacy of the plantation era that endured for decades until many farms and ranches abruptly closed at the end of the last century.
Tens of thousands of acres where sugar cane and pineapples once grew have become overgrown with invasive vegetation, such as fountain and guinea grasses that can ignite easily and burn for weeks. The state’s explosion of fire events, from 5,000 acres annually to 20,000 in recent decades, can likely be traced to plantations that altered the natural landscape, according to Clay Trauernicht, a University of Hawaii wildland fire specialist quoted by the Associated Press. Native Hawaiians, who fought to reclaim lands that were taken after White businessmen plotted to dethrone Queen Lili’uokalani, also live in areas that are plagued with vegetation that fuels wildfires. Just south of DeCorte’s home are two of the state’s largest homesteads, land granted to residents with at least 50 percent Hawaiian blood.
The invasive grasses — brought in by ranchers looking for a supply of livestock foliage that could survive droughts — formed deep, flammable layers as they dried out in a seasonal cycle. Yet for decades Hawaii’s government has done little to reduce the thicket. In a memorandum to state lawmakers eight months before the West Maui fires, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green (D) noted the risks posed by invasive vegetation. Hawaii’s largest fire — the 2021 Mana Road Fire that burned 40,000 acres — was sparked by power tools that workers were using to build a fence around rangeland on the Big Island.
Residents in the area said they relied on neighbors, private workers and others to provide equipment such as bulldozers to help firefighters battle the blaze. The agency is also awaiting the results of the Attorney General’s investigation into the Maui fire, the email statement said.
“A key element of emergency management is adapting to meet changing hazards and their consequences, so we’re always looking for better ways to prevent harm,” said EMA Administrator James Barros. Many Hawaii residents question the response of state and county authorities to the West Maui fire.
Emergency management officials were slow to alert residents even as the National Weather Service warned of “a serious fire threat” from strong wind gusts from a passing hurricane. Sirens that could have alerted the community to the danger never sounded, triggering a torrent of criticism against Maui’s emergency management chief, who resigned nine days after the fire.
Those lapses weigh heavily on Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on the Big Island of Hawaii. On the same day that Lahaina was engulfed, Cooper was forced to evacuate her house at 4:40 a.m. because of another wildfire. Cooper raced to a nearby beach with two dogs and a cat, then waited for hours before emergency officials allowed her to return. But around 3 p.m., the fire came roaring back.
The rising fear has kept Mike Schorr busy. For the past six months, he has conducted home fire mitigation assessments as a volunteer for the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization.
Before Lahaina, he conducted 12 assessments. In just two days afterward, “I received eight requests,” Schorr, 62, said. “I’m not chasing people, let me put it that way.
Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said the community seems to be viewing the threat more seriously than the government. He views the situation as so dire he has advocated for farming open fields to prevent dry vegetation from accumulating on them. “There’s no management, there’s no crop production, there’s no livestock grazing,” he said.
“All of this grass, biomass, it goes up, it dries out, it dies, it lays down, it goes back up again the next year.” That, he added, creates “a really dangerous situation” on the drier western slopes of the islands.
What’s frightening, Thorne said, is that the state could allow the lessons of Lahaina to fade. “People kind of move on with their lives and they kind of forget about it until we get the next catastrophe,” he said.
DeCorte, a former Republican candidate for the state Senate, is urging residents to be more aware of their surroundings and will press officials to do more, partly because of the risks her community faces. This week, Maui County officials visited Kihei, on the south side of the island, where Kalani Au-Hoon and other volunteers worked at a community distribution site for Lahaina victims. The officials asked what the workers needed, and Au-Hoon spoke up: Maui needs fire-safe construction that relies on fire-safe materials, not “matchbox tinder material,” he said. He said Kihei “has been the desert for many years, and it catches fire every year.” Residents were evacuated around the time of the Lahaina fires and could breathe the smoke coming down from the Kula fires.
Au-Hoon, who was born in Oahu and grew up in South Maui, pointed to a nearby field that’s covered in dry, yellowing grasses. “Right here, one match. One ember, or something. And it’s toast,” he said.
Mike Munson, a Native Hawaiian who lives at the Pu’ukapu homestead on the Big Island, said he has nieces and nephews who lost homes in Lahaina and a sister in shock because people she knows are still missing. Munson survived the 2021 Mana Road Fire that threatened hundreds of homes.
It too was fueled by high winds and fed by invasive grasses. In a lawsuit, Native Hawaiian homesteaders said sparks from tools used to build a ranch fence started the blaze, scorching land they used to farm. The West Maui fire made residents elsewhere realize how fortunate they were, he said.
correction A previous version of this story misspelled Kohala by the Sea. This version has been corrected.

With the devastation of the Lahaina firestorm seared in most minds here and with experts saying the size, intensity and frequency of wildfires is on the rise in Hawaii, many residents are left wondering if the same thing could happen to their towns. The answer, experts say, is yes.
In fact, 94% of Hawaii’s populated areas are vulnerable because they are either built into the wildland-urban interface or lie adjacent to vacant land overrun by highly flammable weeds, said Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization. “The truth is that everywhere in the state where humans go is at risk of ignition,” Pickett said. While drier leeward communities are the most vulnerable to wildfire, windward towns are becoming increasingly susceptible as the islands experience more frequent periods of drought.
University of Hawaii at Manoa wildfire expert Clay Trauernicht said the annual area burned in Hawaii has increased by 300% in the past decades, making the percentage area of land burned on par with fire-prone Western states such as California. The risk of wildfire in Hawaii is greater than 92% of states in the U.S., according to a U.S. Forest Service website called wildfirerisk.org.
In recent years island wildfires have been helped by a relatively new fuel source: highly flammable non-native grasses like guinea grass and haole koa. These grassy savannas, Trauernicht said, cover about a million acres across the main Hawaiian islands and are mostly the legacy of land clearing for plantation agriculture and ranching in the late 1800s and early 1900s.
Another ingredient in the wildfire mix is the climate. Steven Businger, UH Department of Atmospheric Sciences professor, said the islands are getting less rainfall, which is making Hawaii a drier place with conditions more suited for wildfire.
On Aug. 8, wildfires on Maui and Hawaii island were pushed by fierce winds driven by a phenomenon known as a downslope windstorm. The condition occurred when a strong high pressure area north of the state interacted with an area of low pressure created by Hurricane Dora south of the state, causing winds to whip down the mountainsides with gusts of 60 mph or more. Businger said such downslope windstorms are notorious for occurring in the wintertime, but their frequency is likely to increase in the summer, when periods of drought and low humidity are more prevalent.
On Aug. 8, conditions were ripe for wildfire, and historic Lahaina, with its many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush, was an easy mark for the raging inferno. Wind-driven flames killed at least 115 people, destroyed more than 2,200 structures in the heart of the seaside town and caused an estimated $5.5 billion in damage. Following the disaster, communities across the state began to sit up and wonder if they are next.
Pickett of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said the services and expertise of her small Big Island-based nonprofit are suddenly in high demand. “In the last few weeks the size of our program has doubled,” she said.
“This could have happened in our community,” said Michael Moran, association president. Kihei, he said, has many similarities to Lahaina, including the fact that it is a dry, leeward community by the sea surrounded by former sugar cane fields.
The Kihei fire on Aug. 8 burned right up to the town’s northern edge and right up to the fencelines of 50-year-old wooden homes. And it’s not the first time. Five years ago, Moran said, another storm ripped across the open cane fields, causing the evacuation of the Maui Humane Society animal shelter.
“That should have been our first lesson. But it’s the same thing, a short attention span. It was close, nothing happened, so no mitigation took place,” he said.
Another leeward community worried about catastrophe is Waianae, which has a well-deserved reputation for wildfires. Last year, the Honolulu Fire Department responded to over 300 fires on the west side of Oahu alone.
At last week’s neighborhood board meeting, Ho‘omanawanui proposed a number of committees that would spring into action in times of emergency. He said the panels would examine such things as buying two-way radios, identifying rally point locations, organizing boat owners and practicing evacuations.
On the Big Island, the Waimea Community Association held a meeting Thursday to discuss the Lahaina tragedy and examine what happened on Hawaii island Aug. 8. On Saturday the association sponsored the “Are You Ready?” Waimea Fire Prevention &Resilience Fair at Mana Christian
‘Ohana Kahilu Town Hall. Kazuo Todd, Hawaii Fire Department chief, told Thursday’s meeting that his forces battled seven fires Aug. 8 and were hamstrung by high winds that rendered firefighting helicopters useless and overwhelmed slow-moving bulldozers. In total, the flames consumed one sizable warehouse in the Mauna Kea Beach area and damaged seven other structures.
U.S. Rep. Jill Tokuda, D-Hawaii, said she toured the burned areas of both Maui and Hawaii and said the damage could have been much worse. Pickett said the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization has been working with fire departments and related agencies on wildfire prevention for more than two decades. But it’s frustrating, she said, because prevention often gets short shrift in terms of money in Hawaii.
“There has been no money or prioritization by the people who control the budgets,” she said. “So every partner who could do something is strapped and trying their best to compete for national money because there is no local money for wildfire mitigation. There is only a federal pot of funds, and we’re competing against California and all these other places, so only one or two projects get funded across the state. “If we keep expecting that to work, we’re in for it, especially if our subdivisions are designed dangerously and there’s no accountability for the way land is managed,” Pickett said.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - As a librarian archivist at the Hawaiian Mission Houses, Marilyn Reppun has a deep understanding of Lahaina’s importance to Hawaii’s history. The town was once the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom and the center of Christianity on Maui. Now, timeless structures and priceless artifacts are among the ruins of the disaster. The Hawaiian Mission Houses and its partner the Lahaina Restoration Foundation still don’t have an exact inventory of the physical pieces destroyed in the inferno. But in the weeks since, Reppun has been locating items relevant to Lahaina’s history including original photos, journals, drawings, and letter to upload to the House’s digital archives. “It’s a small thing that we can do to help restore that history and ensure that these stories live on for future generations and that’s really the value of archives,” said Hawaiian Mission Houses Historic Site & Archives executive director Erin Shapiro. It’s all part of a massive digitization project led by Hawaiian Mission Houses and they’re also searching their collection for any period furniture that could replace what was lost. While full recovery is years away, the hope is to use these archived pieces as a guide to help rebuild and also ensure Lahaina’s history is shared worldwide and never forgotten.
Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

As Utah Jazz training camp begins in October’s first week, the team will gather players and coaches together again after a long summer vacation to begin work on the season ahead. But training camp won’t take place here in Utah.
Instead, the team will jet to Hawaii, spending the first five days of practice there before playing a game against the Los Angeles Clippers in Honolulu at SimpliFi Arena on Oct. 8, at 7 p.m. MT. The franchise announced the game Wednesday morning. The Jazz will be practicing on the campus of BYU-Hawaii on the north shore of Oahu, meanwhile, the Clippers will be practicing from the University of Hawaii’s facilities. The Hawaii trip had been in the works for months, but took on a different tone after fires have devastated the town of Lahaina in Maui.
Wind-driven fires have killed at least 115 people, with at least 850 missing. In the wake of those fires, the Jazz and Clippers jointly decided that all proceeds from the game would be donated to the Maui Strong Fund. After the game, the Jazz will return to the continental U.S. and play the Clippers again in Seattle on Oct. 10.
Then, they’ll return to Utah to play Portland at the Delta Center on Oct. 14, the New Zealand Breakers at the Delta Center on Oct. 17. A date at Sacramento on Oct. 19 wraps up their five-game preseason schedule.

HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) -
Tech leaders confirmed in a Capitol Hill hearing on Wednesday what researchers had first suspected — that China and Russia were behind a coordinate campaign on social media platforms to spread misinformation about the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire. Meanwhile, U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, said that he federal government’s response was hindered by online rumors. “Maui residents were subjected to disinformation, some of it coming from foreign governments, i.e. Russia, looking to sow confusion and distrust,” Hirono said. “I worry that too, with AI, such information will only become more rampant,” she added.
Brad Smith, vice Chair and president of Microsoft, said during testimony before Congress that people come together during disaster. On Maui, they did, but there was also division.
“We had some people, not necessarily directed by the Kremlin but people who regularly spread Russian propaganda, trying to discourage the people of Lahaina from going to the agencies that could help them. That’s inexcusable,” Smith said.
“We saw what we believe is Chinese-directed activity trying to persuade the world in multiple languages, that the fire was caused by the United States government itself using a meteorological weapon. Those are the things that we should all try to bring the international community together and agree they’re off limits,” he added.
She’s been trying to debunk the online myths, including a government land grab. “It’s OK to be angry at the government. It’s OK to not be happy about what happened, but we have to have our feelings be our own and our community work together.
What these campaigns are doing is dividing us,” Stolfi-Tow said. Experts say government needs to be proactive about social media and have a plan for dealing with disinformation — now almost inevitable after a disaster. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) — Authorities in Hawaii have adjusted the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire down to at least 97 people.
Officials previously said they believed at least 115 people had died in the fire, but further testing showed they had multiple DNA samples from some of the victims. The number of those who are missing also fell from 41 to 31, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said.
John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, said during a news conference Friday afternoon that the current number of dead should be considered a minimum, because it’s possible that toll could rise. Determining the death toll from the Aug. 8 wildfire in Lahaina has been especially complicated because of the damage caused by the fire and the chaos as people tried to escape, officials said.
In some cases, animal remains were inadvertently collected along with human remains. So far, 74 of the deceased have been positively identified, Pelletier said.
The Lahaina fire is the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in more than a century. Caught in a hellscape, some residents died in their cars, while others jumped into the ocean or tried to run for safety. The blaze reduced much of the historic town to ash.
“When the fire broke out, people ran together, they huddled together,” said Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner. “They’re holding each other in those moments. Some of them were even holding pets.”
Because of this, some remains arrived commingled. Byrd said the initial death tally was too high for several reasons, adding that the lower tally now was the “normal and natural” progression of the long-term forensics investigation. “The numbers start a little too high on the morgue side and eventually settles until at some point it’s going to be a final accurate number. I would say we’re not quite there yet,” Byrd said.
Only people who have had a missing person report filed for them with the Maui Police Department are on the verified missing list, Pelletier said. If a missing person report hasn’t been filed for someone more than five weeks after the fire, then that person probably isn’t actually missing, the chief said.
Stuelpnagel wasn’t supposed to start in his new role until October. But he sped up his start date and arrived on Maui from New York City soon after the fire. Until he arrived, Maui’s medical examiner duties were shared with other counties.
“When this happened it was time to drop everything and come here,” he said. Stuelpnagel said people working on the identification process are trying to “reunify people to have them as whole as they’re able to be,” before the remains are returned to their loved ones.
The work to reunite fire victims with families involves more than just DNA tests, officials said. Anthropologists are assisting, and officials are gathering clues from dental work and medical devices like pacemakers when possible. Authorities expressed relief at having a better grasp on the number of dead and those still unaccounted for in the wildfire. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho.

Following news from Hawaii County of the Hawaii Fire Department neutralizing the brushfires in Kaʻū in Naalehu and Pahala, Hawaii Island police announced the launch of an arson investigation into the Kaʻū brushfire that’s been determined to have started under suspicious circumstances, according to police. On the afternoon of Aug. 9, the Hawaii Fire Department received a report of several brushfires on Mill Camp Road in Pahala.
They found two separate fires upon arrival, one on either side of Mill Camp Road. They were burning in the same area, but how the fires started appeared to be different, according to a news release. Detectives determined that an unattended cooking fire started one of the fires. The second fire may have been intentionally set as investigators found an incendiary device on the roadway where they believe the fire started. Both fires were extinguished by fire personnel.
The investigation found that just after the fires began, a male operating a green All-Terrain Vehicle was seen leaving the area of Mill Camp Road. His identity is currently unknown.
According to police, the fires in Pahala are not related to the fires in the North and South Kohala Districts. The cause of those fires is undetermined. Police ask anyone with information on the Mill Camp Road wildfires to contact Detective Donovan Kohara at 808-960-3118 or via email at donovan.kohara@hawaiicounty.gov. People can also call the department’s non-emergency number at 808-935-3311. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at 808-961-8300.

LAHAINA, Hawaii — The first of thousands of residents who lost their homes in the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina returned to their devastated properties Monday, with some stopping for a moment of reflection and others searching for mementos among the ruins. In the days following the Aug. 8 wildfire, some people were able to return to their properties to evaluate the damage.
But since then, the burned area has been off-limits to all but authorized workers. Authorities opened one small part of it on Monday, allowing residents in for supervised visits from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. By midday, about two dozen vehicles carrying residents had entered the area.
The prospect of returning has stirred strong emotions in residents who fled in vehicles or on foot as wind-whipped flames raced across Lahaina, the historic capital of the former Hawaiian kingdom, and overcame people stuck in traffic trying to escape. The wildfire killed at least 97 people and destroyed more than 2,000 buildings, most of them homes. Some survivors jumped over a sea wall and sheltered in the waves as hot black smoke blotted out the sun.
Officials urged returning residents not to sift through the ashes for fear of raising toxic dust. The first area to be cleared for reentry was a zone of about two dozen parcels in the northern part of Lahaina.
From a National Guard blockade near the burn zone, Jes Claydon has been able to see the ruins of the rental home where she lived for 13 years and raised three children. Little remains recognizable beyond the jars of sea glass that stood outside the front door. Claydon hoped to collect those jars and any other mementos she might find. Claydon's home was a single-story cinderblock house painted a reddish-tan, similar to the red dirt in Lahaina. A few of the walls are still standing, and some green lawn remains, she said.
Those returning were given water, shade, washing stations, portable toilets, medical and mental health care, and transportation assistance if needed. Nonprofit groups also offered personal protective equipment, including masks and coveralls. Officials say ash could contain asbestos, lead, arsenic or other toxins.
Most journalists were confined to an area where they could not see people visiting their properties. Oliveira said officials wanted to ensure residents had space and privacy to reflect or grieve. A team of more than two dozen people from Samaritan's Purse, a nondenominational Christian ministry, was on hand to help residents sort through what was left of their homes, said Todd Taylor, who works with the organization.

Re-entry comes after nearly seven weeks of cleanup following the Lahaina wildfire. It was one of three fires that terrorized Maui that day and destroyed more than 2,000 buildings, most of them homes.
Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency, said that the agency granted permits for 23 parcels Monday and that 16 families had entered by midday. He said officials are trying to prevent potentially dangerous or toxic dust from dispersing and are asking families to tread lightly on the land. Oliveira said he expects to “pick up the pace” of the operation and to announce the reopening of more zones by the end of the week, with the goal of completing Lahaina re-entries within one to two months, depending on how quickly the EPA can finish cleanup. “People are taken aback by the extent of the destruction,” he said, adding that he saw one family pause in prayer before walking onto their property. Miyamoto followed a similar ritual when he returned to the site of his apartment shortly after the fire, before federal officials blocked off large swaths of Lahaina.
He recalls taking a deep breath before he looked through the remnants of the home he shared with his wife, his adult daughter, two grandchildren and their mother, the ex-girlfriend of his adult son. Miyamoto said that in finding his way around the ruins, he mapped the apartment’s layout in his mind, using a melted steel bed frame to locate the spot where his wife stored her jewelry in their bedroom. He hoped to find her wedding ring, but he instead discovered clumps of gold he presumed to be the remnants of her valuables. The clumps, brass metal plates and a ceramic bowl given to his wife by her grandmother were the only items to survive, he said.

Maui police updated the county’s official fire death toll to 98 on Tuesday, four days after a Lahaina woman’s family confirmed she had died from injuries sustained in the Aug. 8 wildfire.
Laurie Allen, 65, died Friday at Straub Medical Center in Honolulu. The New York Times reported on Saturday that Allen died in the hospital from severe burns she had received after abandoning her car and running through the flames as she tried to escape the inferno that destroyed the historic Maui seaside town.
Of the 98 confirmed fatalities, 92 have been publicly identified after notification of next of kin, while two have been identified but their families have not been located or notified, county officials said. Click here to view a list of individuals who have been confirmed dead by authorities as a result of the Aug. 8, 2023, wildfire in Lahaina.

WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) — Authorities in Hawaii have adjusted the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire down to at least 97 people.
Officials previously said they believed at least 115 people had died in the fire, but further testing showed they had multiple DNA samples from some of the victims. The number of those who are missing also fell from 41 to 31, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said.
John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, said during a news conference Friday afternoon that the current number of dead should be considered a minimum, because it’s possible that toll could rise. Determining the death toll from the Aug. 8 wildfire in Lahaina has been especially complicated because of the damage caused by the fire and the chaos as people tried to escape, officials said.
In some cases, animal remains were inadvertently collected along with human remains. So far, 74 of the deceased have been positively identified, Pelletier said.
The Lahaina fire is the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in more than a century. Caught in a hellscape, some residents died in their cars, while others jumped into the ocean or tried to run for safety. The blaze reduced much of the historic town to ash.
“When the fire broke out, people ran together, they huddled together,” said Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner. “They’re holding each other in those moments. Some of them were even holding pets.”
Because of this, some remains arrived commingled. Byrd said the initial death tally was too high for several reasons, adding that the lower tally now was the “normal and natural” progression of the long-term forensics investigation. “The numbers start a little too high on the morgue side and eventually settles until at some point it’s going to be a final accurate number. I would say we’re not quite there yet,” Byrd said.
Only people who have had a missing person report filed for them with the Maui Police Department are on the verified missing list, Pelletier said. If a missing person report hasn’t been filed for someone more than five weeks after the fire, then that person probably isn’t actually missing, the chief said.
Stuelpnagel wasn’t supposed to start in his new role until October. But he sped up his start date and arrived on Maui from New York City soon after the fire. Until he arrived, Maui’s medical examiner duties were shared with other counties.
“When this happened it was time to drop everything and come here,” he said. Stuelpnagel said people working on the identification process are trying to “reunify people to have them as whole as they’re able to be,” before the remains are returned to their loved ones.
The work to reunite fire victims with families involves more than just DNA tests, officials said. Anthropologists are assisting, and officials are gathering clues from dental work and medical devices like pacemakers when possible. Authorities expressed relief at having a better grasp on the number of dead and those still unaccounted for in the wildfire. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho.

Munger, Tolles & Olson and Hueston Hennigan, both prominent defense firms in wildfire litigation, have stepped into the Maui cases for Hawaiian Electric Co. and the state of Hawaii. Brad Brian, a partner at Los Angeles-based Munger Tolles who represented Pacific Gas and Electric Co. in criminal settlements over previous wildfires in California, is joined by Los Angeles partner Lisa Demsky and Nicholas Fram, a partner in San Francisco.

Hawaiian Electric is severely underinsured to pay victims of August’s deadly Maui wildfire, as well as repair its own damaged infrastructure, raising questions over how the beleaguered utility could cover billions of dollars in mounting damage claims if it is found liable for starting the blaze. Sign up for the Climate Coach newsletter and get advice for life on our changing planet, in your inbox every Tuesday and Thursday.
ArrowRight In a filing to state regulators on Monday, the utility said that it had $165 million in annual general liability insurance, which is what it would potentially use to help repay residents for their losses if it is determined that its equipment started the deadly Lahaina fire. As of now, that would cover a small fraction of the potential $5 billion in damage claims, according to the research firm Capstone, which continue to grow as more residents and even Hawaiian Electric shareholders join the slew of lawsuits against the company.
Hawaiian Electric has said that its equipment was responsible for starting a fire on the morning of Aug. 8 before its lines were de-energized. It said that Maui County had declared that blaze “100% contained” and the fire chief later called it “extinguished.”
The utility has said there were two fires and that it is not at fault for the one that sparked that afternoon in the same area, which ultimately devastated Lahaina. While the blaze is still under investigation, a spokesperson for the fire department and witnesses told The Post that the fire reignited amid high winds.
Hawaiian Electric declined to comment Wednesday. Mike Kelly, a California wildfire attorney who leads an oversight committee related to Pacific Gas & Electric’s payouts to that state’s wildfire victims, said that Hawaiian Electric should have better analyzed its risks when obtaining insurance, including the islands’ propensity for high winds and highly flammable grasses.
Experts said it is common for utilities to have low amounts of liability insurance. It’s unclear whether Hawaiian Electric’s general liability policy is what’s known as a “burning limits policy,” which means that attorneys’ fees from representing the utility would also come out of that $165 million if the company were found liable, making the pool even smaller for victims.
Many of these policies often are, experts said. Hawaiian Electric declined to answer a question about its policy.
The filing shows that Hawaiian Electric also has property damage insurance that is limited in scope, with two policies totaling $500 million. However, within those policies, there is a sublimit of just $5 million for fire damage to equipment such as power poles, lines, conductors and substations, many of which burned or were severely impacted by the August blaze. In comparison, the utility has a sublimit for at least $200 million in damage to its own equipment from named wind storms.
This stands out, experts who reviewed the filing said, because it seriously underestimated the fire risk the utility faced despite highlighting it in its own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in this week’s filing. It identified wildfire as a danger to West Maui, where Lahaina is located, and a top priority for the utility to address, but downplayed its need to enact proactive mitigation measures, such as a power shut-off safety plan, and the flammability of the grasses around its infrastructure.
Hawaiian Electric created its plan after studying California’s horrific 2018 Camp Fire, which killed at least 85 people, as well as its own experiences with wildfire a year later. The primary objective of the plan was to “minimize the probability of Hawaiian Electric’s facilities becoming the origin or contributing source of ignition for a wildfire,” it said.
In 2019 and 2020, the utility used drones to inspect its facilities and the vegetation around its equipment. Based on those assessments, the company identified West Maui, where Lahaina is located, as priority area No. 1 for the region.
However, the utility made what experts said was a bizarre assessment, comparing its risk to that of California’s as the reason for not having more frequent and robust inspections, vegetation management, and for not creating a public safety power shut-off program. “This is due to Hawaiian Electric having fewer facilities in high-risk wildfire areas and Hawaii’s dry areas having very few tall trees, which is a major fuel source for wildfires, as compared to California,” the 2023 plan said.
According to Hawaiian Electric, because its wildfire risk was “significantly less than [in] California,” it needed to inspect its transmission and substations only every three to five years, vs. annually. As for its decision not to adopt a policy to preemptively shut off power in the face of red flag and high wind warnings, Hawaiian Electric said in its 2023 wildfire mitigation plan that, “Based on news reports, Pacific Gas & Electric’s practice to preemptively turn off circuits in certain areas if conditions were ripe for a wildfire was not well-received by certain customers affected.”
Therefore, Hawaiian Electric felt that it did not need to adopt the practice. “It’s clear and saddening, reading this plan, that Hawaiian Electric did not take the risk of consequence of ignition more clearly,” Wara said.

