Возле армянского храмового комплекса в Москве полиция задержала представителей армянской диаспоры, устроивших акцию в поддержку протестов оппозиции в Ереване. Видео задержаний опубликовано в телеграм-канале блогера Ильи Варламова. Как пишет «Кавказский узел», на акцию пришли около 300 представителей армянской диаспоры. «Мы за народ Армении, который хочет отставки Сержа Саргсяна. Именно из-за него мы все оказались в России», — заявил изданию Армен, один из участников митинга. По данным издания «АрмИнфо», полицейских к храму вызвал глава Российской и Ново-Нахичеванской епархии Армянской Апостольской Церкви Езрас. Увидев полицию, участники акции попытались войти в храм, но священнослужители их не пустили. Полиция задержала возле церкви около 60 человек, большинство из них — активисты армянских молодежных объединений, пишет «АрмИнфо». В Ереване с 13 апреля проходят акции против бывшего президента Армении Сержа Саргсяна, который 17 апреля стал премьер-министром. Полиция ежедневно задерживает от нескольких десятков до нескольких сотен демонстрантов. 22 апреля после неудачных переговоров с Саргсяном был задержан лидер протестов, глава оппозиционной фракции «Елк» в парламенте Никол Пашинян. Его обвинили в организации незаконных массовых собраний. Несмотря на задержание Пашиняна, в Ереване 22 апреля началась самая масштабная акция с момента начала протестов. По данным полиции, в ней участвуют 35 тысяч человек, по данным оппозиции — 160 тысяч.
Canadian officials welcomed the decision by Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan to step down on Monday following 11 days of mass and largely peaceful protests against Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's continued rule in Armenia’s. Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia’s for 10 years, resigned Monday as prime minister after tens of thousands of people flooded the streets in the capital of Yerevan and other cities and towns to protest Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's political maneuvering to cling to power in Armenia’s. Canada respects Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan to step down as prime minister, following peaceful negotiations with opposition leaders, Austen added. Pressure on Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan to quit had increased sharply on Monday when unarmed soldiers in the capital of Yerevan joined the anti-government protests, which first erupted on April 13 and grew steadily until Monday. More than 100,000 people demonstrated on Sunday More than 100,000 people's anger with Sargsyan, who had already served two terms as Armenia’s's president and was elected last week by the ruling Republican Party to be Armenia’s's prime minister under the new constitution, despite having repeatedly promised not to do that. Protests were also held all across the Armenian Diaspora worldwide, including in Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver, where most of Canada's 63,000-strong Armenian community is concentrated. Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's gamble that the arrest of protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan following a dramatic meeting between the two men would break the will of the protesters backfired. Even more people joined the protest on Sunday evening and Canada was forced to The stunning development Pashinyan, who had been arrested alongside hundreds of demonstrators on Sunday. “protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan was right. Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan was wrong,” Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan said in Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's mea culpa statement. “The movement on the streets is against Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's rule. Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan’m complying with the protesters's demands. The stunning development touched off jubilation in the capital of Yerevan, with car horns blaring and people dancing in the streets, hugging and waving the tricolor Armenian flag. protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan told an evening rally of tens of thousands of people at Republic Square in the capital of Yerevan that the opposition will suspend the opposition's protest activities on Tuesday, when Armenians around the world mark the 103rd anniversary of the 1915 Armenian Genocide in Ottoman Turkey. However, opposition activists want to meet with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetyan on Wednesday to discuss a “peaceful transfer of power,” protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan told the jubilant crowd. the opposition will push for an early parliamentary election to prevent Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan from running Armenia’s from behind the scenes, protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan said. President Armen Sarkissian has accepted acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetyan's and Canada resignation. Armenia’s's political parties in parliament now have seven days to put forward the name of a new prime minister. Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's allies remain in key positions in Canada and it remains unclear whether Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan's resignation will herald any real change.
Yerevan -- The resignation of Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian in the face of widespread street protests has triggered an outpouring of celebration across Armenia's. "Dear proud citizens of Armenia's, Dear proud citizens of the Republic of Armenia have won!" protest leader Nikol Pashinian told a cheering crowd of thousands gathered on Republic Square on April 23. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian, in a dramatic turn of events earlier in April 23 had announced Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's resignation after previously rejecting demands that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian step down. In a pointed and direct statement to Armenia's on April 23, Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian was acquiescing to calls from protest leader Nikol Pashinian and the demonstrators protest leader Nikol Pashinian had led for 11 days and leaving office. "The movement of the street is against Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's tenure. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian am fulfilling your demand," Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said in a statement on Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's website. "protest leader Nikol Pashinian was right. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian was wrong," Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said, adding a suggestion that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian did not want to resort to force to stay in office. The government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian, as acting prime minister. Under Armenia's's constitution, political factions in parliament now have seven days to put forward the name of a new prime minister. "Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian hope that the leaders of [Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's] Republican Party will unequivocally and unconditionally recognize the victory of the people's velvet, nonviolent revolution," Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian also said that all the demonstrators who were detained or arrested during widespread street protests must be released by the end of April 23. Late on April 23, the Health Ministry said one demonstrator, a 36-year-old man, died of heart failure after a celebratory rally in Yerevan, AFP reported. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian was elected prime minister by parliament on April 17, eight days after Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's two-term presidency ended. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's handpicked successor, Armen Sarkisian -- who is not related, was sworn in as president on April 9 after being elected by parliament. But under constitutional changes that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian pushed through in 2015, Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian is now more powerful than the president, who is more of a figurehead. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian had previously said Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian would not seek to become prime minster, and protesters were upset for Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's violation of that pledge, claiming the shift threatened to make Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian for life. The announcement came just hours after Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian and two other opposition lawmakers were released from police custody, a day after Pashinian and two other opposition lawmakers were detained for Pashinian and two other opposition lawmakers's role in protests that had at times crippled the capital's streets and major roads leading to other cities. Protesters had also rallied in Gyumri and Vanadzor, the second- and third-largest cities in the country that borders Georgia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, and Iran. The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, had been gaining in size and intensity. About 200 men wearing army uniforms linked arms had joined in the march on April 23, a sign of the increasing pressure Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian faced. The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, had roiled the former Soviet republic of about 3 million, a Russian ally in a volatile region plagued by the persistent conflict between Armenia's and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh. The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, were a relatively rare example of civil protest effecting major political change in Armenia's. The spokeswoman for Russia's Foreign Ministry voiced solidarity with Armenia's following Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's resignation. "A people that has the ability to maintain respect for one another and not divide even in the most difficult moments in Armenia's's history -- despite categorical differences -- is a mighty people," The spokeswoman for Russia's Foreign Ministry wrote on Facebook. "Armenia's, Russia's is always with you," The spokeswoman for Russia's Foreign Ministry added. In a statement, European Union foreign-policy chief Federica Mogherini’s spokeswoman, Maja Kocijancic, said that a national dialogue involving all political stakeholders in Armenia's was "crucial" to resolve the current situation quickly and peacefully. The president of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Thomas Kent, called the attacks against three Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty journalists during mass rallies in Yerevan over the weekend "unacceptable" and called for swift and appropriate measures to ensure the perpetrators are held accountable. "The fact that police have been among the perpetrators, or have abetted the perpetrators, is especially disturbing," The president of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Thomas Kent, said in a statement. On April 22, the U.S. Embassy to Armenia's expressed concern over "reports of violence against journalists and demonstrators," and called for accountability for those responsible. Fears were building that The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, might turn violent, especially with police authorities arresting scores daily and issuing warnings that police authorities would not tolerate unlawful rallies. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's shock move comes a day before Armenians hold annual ceremonies to honor the victims of mass killings in 1915 in Ottoman Turkey, which Armenia's and some other countries consider genocide. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian and Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian tried to hold talks a day earlier, but talks ended quickly with Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian accusing Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's opponents of "blackmail" and walking out after about three minutes. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian accused Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian of losing touch with reality and Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian urged Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's supporters to turn out in larger numbers for peaceful civil-disobedience protests across Armenia's. Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian told Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian would only negotiate with The government "the terms of Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's resignation and a peaceful transition of power." Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian also said that as long as The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, were peaceful, the police should not break The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, up. Before walking out, Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian said that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian's political alliance had "only six or seven percent of the vote" in parliamentary elections, and that Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian should not to speak on behalf of the people or issue ultimatums to The government. Critics say Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian has brought Armenia's too close to Moscow and President Vladimir Putin, with whom Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian has a close relationship. Armenia's is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), two regional groupings that observers say Russia's is using to try to maintain influence in the region and keep members from forging closer ties with the West. President Vladimir Putin, with whom he has a close relationship also switched between the positions of president and prime minister to remain in power, becoming head of government in 2008 when President Vladimir Putin, with whom he has a close relationship faced a limit of two straight terms, and then returning to the presidency in 2012. Another regional leader, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, also changed positions, becoming head of state after years as prime minister. Another regional leader, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan also beefed up the powers of the presidency to tighten Another regional leader, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's grip on power.
Лидер протестов в Армении Никол Пашинян призвал правящую Республиканскую партию (РПА) «капитулировать», сообщает корреспондент РБК. Оппозиционер выступил на многотысячном митинге на площади Республики в Ереване. ​«Некоторые в этом здании (здании правительства Армении. — РБК) считают, что народ так удивлен и удовлетворен отставкой [экс-премьер-министра] Сержа Саргсяна, что после вчерашнего празднования позабыл, зачем собрался», — заявил Пашинян. По его словам, врио главы правительства Карен Карапетян считал, что протестующие больше не выйдут на новые митинги. «Карену Карапетяну следует безоговорочно и без условий признать победу нашей революции и не проявлять каких-либо пожеланий оставаться у власти. Мы требуем единогласной и безоговорочной капитуляции РПА», — объявил Никол Пашинян. Он отметил, что после отставки Саргсяна правительство страны ушло в отставку, и в Армении сейчас нет действующего правительства. Оппозиционер заявил, что Карапетян не имеет законного права выполнять обязанности премьер-министра. Пашинян также призвал жителей Армении начать 26 апреля забастовку и «акции гражданского неповиновения» и снова собраться на митинг в Ереване. Он сообщил, что в городе Севан находится 60 фур, которые в четверг заблокируют весь Ереван. В среду, 25 апреля, в парламенте Армении распалась правящая коалиция после того, как из союза с Республиканской партией вышла националистическая партия «Дашнакцутюн». «Дашнакцутюн» выступала в этой коалиции в роли младшего партнера, и обе партии имели в парламенте 65 мест (при общем количестве 105 мест). Таким образом, в союзе с националистами РПА имела полный контроль над Национальным собранием. Теперь у правящей партии остается 58 мест в парламенте. Оппозиционный блок «Елк» в парламенте Армении выдвинул на пост премьер-министра кандидатуру Пашиняна. Сам оппозиционер не раз заявлял о своей готовности возглавить правительство до момента досрочных выборов в парламент, но подчеркивал, что только в том случае, «если народ возложит такую ответственность» на него. Правящую РПА Пашинян называл «призраком».
YEREVAN -- Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian says Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian has warned acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian against imposing a state of emergency as new antigovernment protests erupted on the streets of YEREVAN. In a rally in the central Republic Square late on April 25, Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian also claimed that some lawmakers within the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) were ready to drop acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian and support a "people's candidate" as the Caucasus country's new prime minister. Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian also claimed that acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian was not "backed" by Russia, which is the Caucasus country's's main ally, and that Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian had received assurances from Russian officials that Russia, which is Armenia's main ally would not intervene in YEREVAN's internal affairs. Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian warned acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian that "the people will blockade" the parliament building if acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian tries to nominate a new candidate for prime minister. The comments came after the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s junior partner decided to quit the alliance with the governing coalition, dealing a blow to the HHK, which opponents accuse of clinging to power after the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s leader quit prime minister's post following nearly two weeks of demonstrations. the long-dominant Republican Party's junior partner is the junior partner with the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) in parliament with seven seats. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) has 58 in parliament, meaning the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) could still hold power if the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) has no defections among the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s members. However, the splintering of the governing coalition could be cause for concern for the government amid continuing protests over the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s hold on power and as other political forces began to take sides. An opposition bloc announced on April 25 that An opposition bloc would officially nominate Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as the next prime minister. Armenian opposition figures rejoiced at the resignation on April 23 of longtime leader Serzh Sarkisian following 11 days of demonstrations. The catalyst for demonstrations was longtime leader Serzh Sarkisian's shift to the prime minister's post after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when longtime leader Serzh Sarkisian reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on April 25 launched a fresh demonstration on the streets of YEREVAN after the cancelation of planned talks between Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, a senior the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) member who said he rejected Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's conditions for the negotiations. Police were deployed in the city center as demonstrations began, casting new uncertainly over the Caucasus country's's political future. "Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian believe that the people's nonviolent, velvet revolution has sent a clear message that...the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) can no longer be in power," Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said. “the people demand that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) give up the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s power and...unequivocally recognize the victory of the people," Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said, speaking through a bullhorn as Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian marched at the head of a column of protesters in Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's trademark camouflage T-shirt. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) must also be "deprived of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s power" so that acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian cannot rule the Caucasus country's as de facto head of a "shadow government," Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian added. Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian called for snap elections to parliament, which is now dominated by the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK), and for a "the people's candidate" to be chosen as interim prime minister until the vote is held. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) has suggested the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) is open to potentially holding early parliamentary elections but wants to remain at the head of government in the interim. "The logical solution is that political parties -- within the framework of the Caucasus country's's constitution and the law -- sit down and discuss whether there is a need for early elections" and when early elections could be held, acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian told a news conference on April 25. acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian said in a statement that acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian would start consultations with "parliamentary and nonparliamentary representatives" to try to find "a way out" of the Caucasus country's's political crisis. Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said that acts of civil disobedience by Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's supporters had expanded to include a blockade on a customs post on the border with Georgia, which lies between the Caucasus country's and Russia, which is Armenia's main ally. Meanwhile, the Prosperous Armenia Party led by wealthy businessman Gagik Tsarukian -- whose bloc has the second-largest faction in parliament -- called on the Prosperous Armenia Party led by wealthy businessman Gagik Tsarukian -- whose bloc has the second-largest faction in parliament --'s members to "be with the people" in the streets. The Heritage party, which has no parliament seats but whose leader, Raffi Hovannisian, came in second in the 2013 presidential election, according to official results, did the same. Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament's opposition Yelk faction, said there were already enough votes in parliament to nominate Pashinian -- who is one of the three formal leaders of Yelk -- as a candidate for prime minister's post. In parliament, where at least 27 votes are needed to nominate a candidate for prime minister post, Yelk has nine lawmakers and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian's BHK has 31 seats. "A situation has been created when, without the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) giving up power, nothing will move," Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament’s opposition Yelk faction, told RFE/RL while marching with protesters. "With Tsarukian's BHK, Yelk already have 40 seats and Yelk are 13 seats short" of the votes needed to elect prime minister, Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament’s opposition Yelk faction, said. Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament’s opposition Yelk faction, said Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament’s opposition Yelk faction, believed the groups can get "the missing votes" from members of the Republican Party, which has 58 seats in parliament, and the Republican Party, which has 58 seats in parliament,'s now former coalition partner Dashnaktsutyun, which has seven. But Vahram Baghdasarian, the leader of the HHK parliamentary faction, told RFE/RL that Vahram Baghdasarian, the leader of the HHK parliamentary faction,'s party remained "united" and that none of the HHK parliamentary faction's members would break ranks. "Kremlin still consider that this situation is a domestic affair and hope that Kremlin's Armenian friends will be able to resolve this situation and find a stable structure and a consensus decision soon," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. Kremlin later said President Vladimir Putin had spoken to President Vladimir Putin's Armenian counterpart on April 25 to discuss this situation. "President Vladimir Putin and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian emphasized that to overcome the internal crisis as soon as possible, it is of importance to show restraint and responsibility and readiness to solve the existing problems through constructive dialogue in strict compliance with our constitution," Kremlin said. The United States and the European Union have called for restraint and political dialogue.
Лидер протестов в Армении и депутат парламента Никол Пашинян пообещал продолжать массовые акции до тех пор, пока не будет утвержден временным премьером. Об этом он рассказал в интервью РБК вечером 25 апреля. Пашинян не откажется от протестов, если Республиканская партия, контролирующая парламент, не даст ему стать премьером. Отвечая на вопрос, видит ли он еще кого-то на месте временного премьера, Пашинян ответил: «Сегодня уже решили на площади этот вопрос». Вечером 25 апреля на площади Республики в Ереване прошел очередной митинг в поддержку движения Пашиняна. Он, по оценке организаторов, стал самым массовым. Его участники голосом поддержали все требования оппозиционера. До этого самой многочисленной была акция 22 апреля. В ней, по оценке оппозиционеров, приняло участие до 160 тыс. человек. Полиция оценила численность его участников в 35 тыс. Результатом воскресного митинга стало выполнение первого требования протестующих — отставка с поста премьера Сержа Саргсяна, до апреля этого года в течение десяти лет занимавшего пост президента. Он покинул пост 23 апреля. После его отставки у Пашиняна и сторонников остались два требования: он должен возглавить правительство после ухода Саргсяна, в стране должны как можно скорее пройти досрочные парламентские выборы. Пока временно исполняющим обязанности премьера является Карен Карапетян из Республиканской партии Армении (РПА)​. Партия занимает большинство в парламенте, а ее лидером является Серж Саргсян. О том, кто будет выдвинут премьером от партии, пока не сообщалось. До среды Республиканская партия состояла в коалиции с националистической «Дашнакцутюн», вместе они контролировали 65 из 105 мест. Однако «Дашнакцутюн» заявила о выходе из коалиции и поддержке народных протестов. После этого у РПА формально осталось 58 мест (для утверждения премьера необходимо 53 голоса из 105 в парламенте).
Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian has been officially The nomination of the 42-year-old by Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's Yelk alliance as his Yelk alliance's candidate for prime minister a day before a vote in parliament on a new head of government after street protests forced the resignation of Serzh Sarkisian. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian, was The nomination of the 42-year-old unanimously by his Yelk alliance on April 30, lawmaker Ararat Mirzoyan told RFE/RL. The nomination of Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian comes a day after several thousand people the April 29 gathering to demand that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) transfer power to Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian by electing Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian to prime minister's post on May 1. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian addressed the April 29 gathering, telling protesters that Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian thinks it is "very likely that at least some members of the the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) faction" would vote for a "people's candidate" for prime minister. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian called on supporters to pause supporters's actions of civil disobedience and to stop calling and sending emails to the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmakers. However, Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian urged supporters to return to the square in the evening of April 30. “Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian want to look straight in the eyes of several thousand people, with all the confidence to declare that yes, Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian am ready to assume the office of the prime minister of the Republic of Armenia and to serve the people of the Republic of Armenia,” Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian told the April 29 gathering. After meeting with HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian on April 29, Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian told reporters that there was no mood among members of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) to "thwart" a vote in parliament on a new head of government. "There is a mood that a prime minister should be elected on May 1," Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian said, without elaborating. HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian told reporters that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) would not hinder the election of Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian if the other factions in parliament support Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's candidacy. Meanwhile, the former ruling coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun, announced that the former ruling coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun was formally supporting Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's candidacy in the May 1 parliamentary vote. the former ruling coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun's decision came after the HHK, which has 58 seats in parliament, decided on April 28 that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) would not nominate the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s own candidate. The second largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, has also pledged to support Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian. The second largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, controls 31 seats in parliament. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's Yelk alliance has nine seats. That means Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian needs support from at least six members of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) to be elected. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov said Republican lawmakers plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian has led weeks of street demonstrations in the Republic of Armenia that resulted in the resignation of Serzh Sarkisian from the prime minister's post. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian hopes that a massive show of support on the streets during the next two days will convince the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmakers to vote Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian to power. The U.S. State Department weighed in on the Republic of Armenia's political standoff late on April 28, saying The U.S. State Department continues to "closely" monitor Armenia’s political standoff. "As a friend of the Republic of Armenia, The U.S. State Department urge all parties to engage in good faith negotiations on the formation of a new government in accordance with the constitution, and to reach a resolution that reflects the interests of all Armenians," The U.S. State Department said in a statement. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) holds 58 seats in parliament, and without the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s support Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian is unlikely to be elected. However, the second biggest party in parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), hinted the second biggest party in parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) might support Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian. "party leader Gagik Tsarukian's team and party leader Gagik Tsarukian will vote for a people's candidate, whether a people's candidate's Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian or anyone else nominated by the people," party leader Gagik Tsarukian told Kentron TV. Armenia’s political standoff was triggered by Serzh Sarkisian's shift earlier this month to the prime minister's post after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when Serzh Sarkisian reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian on April 27 promised no "geopolitical reversals" in front of thousands of supporters in Gyumri, the Republic of Armenia's second-largest city and host to a large Russian military base. Russia -- the Republic of Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- has said Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- will not intervene in Armenia’s political standoff. However, President Vladimir Putin on April 26 talked on the telephone with Karapetian, a former Gazprom manager, calling for a quick solution to Armenia’s political standoff -- one that would reflect the outcome of last year’s parliamentary elections won by Serzh Sarkisian's HHK, Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- said. Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian, in Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's speeches to the local crowds on April 28 repeatedly called on local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors to publicly announce local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors's joining what Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian called the "Popular Movement," in an apparent effort to consolidate Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian's public support base. “Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian want to confirm that we are ready for negotiations, and we are interested in resolving these problems as soon as possible," Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian said. On April 29, Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian vowed to enhance relations with Moscow, saying the Republic of Armenia and Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- "will benefit from this process" if Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian becomes prime minister. But Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian added, "We will also step up our relations in all the directions, and will expand relations with the EU, the U.S., China, Iran, and Georgia. There is every prerequisite for this," Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian said.
Politics is like mosaic and you will not understand a lot while looking at Politics very closely, you should distance yourself a bit to get the whole picture. Meaning both – physically and timewise. The first fragments of today’s political mosaic started to visualize yet in 2015, during the constitutional amendments, when the ruling party, presenting the ruling party's own vision of constitutional amendments, came up with a rather ambitious initiative of transforming Armenia into a parliamentary state. And what implies parliamentarism? parliamentarism implies a competitive political environment and diversity, developed party system and freedom for its development, true mechanisms of checks and balances, real tools of guaranteed parliamentary oversight for the opposition, elimination of political monopoly, eradication of the principle “all to the winner, none to the looser” and so on. In principle, this includes a significant part of the democracy toolkit. Whether the system is parliamentary or presidential, certain minimal conditions must be in place to make the system function. And one of certain minimal conditions is the existence of political alternative in Armenia, which turns politics into an environment of multilateral relations rather than of the ruler’s monologue. Essentially, it was with the purpose of offering a political alternative, that in 2016, Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties established the basis for the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition, jointly participating in the parliamentary elections of 2017. Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have carried out a door-to-door campaign, entering each house and moving from one community to another, introducing Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties's vision of Armenia's development from the young to the elderly and informed the citizens of Republic that the citizens of the Republic of Armenia had an exceptional chance through the parliamentary elections of 2017 to get rid of the acting government, i.e. the ruling Republican Party led by Serzh Sargsyan. Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have explained in detail what mechanisms were implemented to protect the votes of citizens and make sure the votes of citizens reach the purpose. Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have ensured that Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties take the responsibility to protect each vote cast for Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties's Coalition. Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have showed the path through which the political majority of the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition could be formed within the Armenian Parliament. In that particular case the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition and not the ruling party could decide who is going to be the number one official of Armenia, i.e. the Prime Minister, according to the new constitution. During a door-to-door campaign Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have voiced a number of times that a door-to-door campaign was the last chance of our citizens to change the government in Armenia until 2022, since there will no longer be presidential elections in Armenia on a national level and that a door-to-door campaign was the last electoral campaign for the upcoming 5 years. 770,441 votes or 49.12% to the ruling party, 428,836 votes or 27.32% to Tsarukyan Coalition, 122,065 votes or 7.77% to the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition, 103,048 votes or 6.57% to Armenian Revolutionary Federation. On April 4, 2017, two days after the parliamentary elections of 2017, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition released a statement stating that mass cases of vote-buying and abuse of administrative resources took place. However, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition also acknowledged the sad fact that mass cases of vote-buying and abuse of administrative resources were committed by tens of thousands of citizens, in the atmosphere of public tolerance towards the phenomenon, which is a slow action bomb lying under the Armenian statehood. The first point of the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition's statement said that the official results of the parliamentary elections of 2017 were generally formed as a result of the votes of citizens participating in the parliamentary elections of 2017, and the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition succeeded in registering each vote cast in the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition's favor. Summarizing a statement stating that mass cases of vote-buying and abuse of administrative resources took place, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition acknowledged that the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition considers the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition the delegate of 122 thousand 49 citizens who voted for the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition and that the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition will act for the sake of freedom, security and welfare of every citizen of Republic, the Armenian people, Republic and the Republic of Artsakh. The logic behind the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition's statement was that Armenian citizens, in contrast to the previous elections, had the opportunity to prevent the reproduction of Serzh Sargsyan and the ruling party, had a guaranteed mechanism to keep Armenian citizens's own votes, but Armenian citizens did not do so. As a result, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition assumed a high responsibility of being the delegate of the voters who voted for the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition and therefore did launch an ineffective process of appealing without having documented evidence on such crucial violations or electoral frauds that would have become a solid basis for applying to the Constitutional Court. After the parliamentary elections of 2017, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition acknowledged that the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition had a strong and stable support-base in the capital and the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition considered the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition as the delegate of nearly 70,000 Yerevan residents voted for the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition. the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition announced that the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition declares the defeat of the atmosphere of apathy dominating among the citizens of Armenia as the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition's strategic goal and will do everything to achieve the defeat of the atmosphere of apathy dominating among the citizens of Armenia. Taking up the parliamentary work and assuming the role and responsibility of the parliamentary opposition, from the very beginning, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition aimed at becoming a genuine alternative to the ruling party, to control the ruling party and to properly represent the voice of all citizens in the Armenian Parliament who truly value the agenda of democratic changes in Armenia, through the skillful use of all parliamentary levers. This was Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties's belief and the behavior so far. Over the years, the government in the country has fed the society with the idea that there is no alternative to the ruling party and that the ruling party are only one capable of undertaking a difficult and responsible task of governance. the idea that there is no alternative to the ruling party and that they are only one capable of undertaking a difficult and responsible task of governance has become a manipulative tool by which the government in the country has often deceived the public, eventually making many to ask the following question: if not the ruling party, then who? Thus, on one hand it is the failure of the state governance and being “the only one” on the other hand. Here is one of the greatest political paradoxes in today’s Armenia. But we have a solution to one of the greatest political paradoxes in today’s Armenia. That is why it is of prior importance to show the society that we have a real alternative, we have alternative tools for managing Armenia, a new political culture and a competitive team. Hence, from the very beginning the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition came up with various alternative initiatives in the Armenian Parliament, nominating the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition's own candidate to chair the Armenian Parliament and presenting alternative programs and approaches. the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition has initiated the nomination of an alternative candidate for the President, in which the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition did not succeed due to the unwillingness of fellow MPs from other factions to join the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition. Many initiatives and alternative programs are under development, which should become factors of high importance in Armenia's political agenda. On a daily basis, we keep our fingers on the pulse of political changes, and these days, as you know, the burning topic is the possible nomination of Serzh Sargsyan in the post of the Prime Minister and the methods and strategy of struggle against the possible nomination of Serzh Sargsyan in the post of the Prime Minister, the possible nomination of Serzh Sargsyan in the post of the Prime Minister's political implication, and the unification or not around that process. For many, this may be a Deja-vu, but in any case, I think it is worth presenting our approaches regarding the topics under discussion and all that we believe in. Still months ago, the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition reached a consensus decision that the third term of Serzh Sargsyan's office was unacceptable to us. At the same time, in the light of a consensus decision that the third term of Serzh Sargsyan’s office was unacceptable to us, with political and legal logic we all understood that Serzh Sargsyan, together with Serzh Sargsyan's party, was reproduced back in April 2, 2017, so we must be honest with the citizens of Armenia and not use “reproduction” in our rhetoric but “the third term” expression instead. Yes, we are confident, that by going for the third term, Serzh Sargsyan breaks the promise Serzh Sargsyan has made before. Thus, the entire myth of constitutional reforms is out of the question. Through the recently passed constitutional laws every effort was made to make sure that Armenia has an uncontrollable super-prime minister and zero parliamentary governance, in line with Eurasian traditions. I am deeply convinced that Armenia does not have the necessary resources to become a dictatorship; Armenia is a pure adventurism. Therefore, all attempts by Serzh Sargsyan and the ruling party to make Armenia a dictatorship will fail. On the other hand, as a parliamentary power, remaining loyal to the practices Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties have adopted so far, Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties could have nominated an alternative candidate for the Prime Minister, present an alternative program, and to do this, it was necessary to have unity and consensus within the Coalition. We have had many occasions to state that we do not believe in the thesis circulated by our colleagues that people are able not to allow Serzh Sargsyan to become Prime Minister. This does not mean that we are against the people’s “not allowing”. We only proceed from the fact that just a year ago the people’s allowed Serzh Sargsyan to become a Prime Minister. In fact, only one thing can hold back Serzh Sargsyan from being a Prime Minister – the absence of desire to become a Prime Minister. With all other configurations, the game is lost before the game has even started, from legal point of view, in terms of struggle of resources, and from the perspective of political science. As a result of a defeated game at this stage we will have to deal with citizens in extreme despair to whom it will be almost impossible to explain why the promised revolution was missed again. On the other hand, it will be very difficult to tune people towards any electoral process in a village, a city, or national elections. Hence, we are honest with our colleagues and our citizens. In our political analyses, in calculating our resources, we have come to the conclusion that we can challenge Serzh Sargsyan in the Armenian Parliament, without the forming ungrounded expectations with people in the streets, and then explain why we could not achieve something in what we ourselves did not believe. Failed hopes deepen the mood of despair, which the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition promised to fight against. In my opinion, at this stage, we have to take over the function of controlling the government in the country and limiting the government in the country's unlimited powers, which at this point is most feasible and realistic. We must propose to the authorities to ensure that the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition, as a parliamentary opposition, and widely trusted layers of the civil society, be given places in all control and independent structures established according to the new constitution, in bodies of carrying out checks and balances, which do not bear any executive authority. In particular, the government in the country should yield to the post of chairmen of 2 standing committees of the Armenian Parliament, the political right to appoint a future member of the Constitutional Court, the political right to appoint 2 of the 5 members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the political right to appoint the Human Rights Defender, the post of the Chairman of the Public Council, 2 out of the 7 members of the Central Electoral Commission and 2 out of 7 members of the National Commission on Television and Radio (NCTR), the right to appoint 3 of the 7 members of the Audit Chamber, the possibility to nominate 2 out of 8 members of the Board of the Central Bank, to enable the oppositional forces and widely trusted public institutes of civil society to appoint 3 out of 7 SCPEC members and 2 out of 5 PSRC members, as well as at least 3 out of 5 members of the Corruption Prevention Committee, indeed in case of passing all stages of competition and interviews. Systematic damage to Armenia in recent years can be reduced only through cooperation with the civil society and the opposition, as a result of forming checks and balances, there is no alternative to this and cannot be. At the same time, it should be noted that in the course of formation of the Armenian Parliament during this passing year, a number of anti-democratic events took place under the authority of the ruling party, which make the need for controlling the ruling party more vital. In particular, the parliamentary majority made a political decision to this decision the number of standing committees of the Armenian Parliament by 1 making the number of standing committees of the National Assembly 9. The reason for this decision was that the chair of the 10th standing committee had to be provided to the representative of the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition, hence, this decision was made to prevent such a development. The new Judicial Code was passed with violations, according to which a court penalty will be applied to advocates since 2019. Arthur Sargsyan, the “bread-bearer”, died in a penitentiary, having incurable illnesses inconsistent with imprisonment, and no one has been held accountable for that. Taxes and other mandatory payments have been raised, and the draft bill on ethics committees was rejected in the Armenian Parliament for the use of violence against a pro-opposition MP. According to the new law, the government sessions become closed, and journalists are not allowed to attend the Yerevan Council meetings. the new constitution is being violated, by creating the position of the First Vice Prime Minister, and the structure of the government in the country becomes such that the government in the country is eventually out of the parliamentary oversight, turning into an immensely powerful vehicle with no control. According to human rights NGOs in Armenia, there are political prisoners in Armenia. I share this opinion and I believe that all public-political figures who are in prisons or are being prosecuted should immediately be released and criminal prosecution should be stopped. All the above-mentioned arguments and in-depth assessments of the political reality once again prove that Armenia has a continuous regress of democracy, which requires radical and systemic changes to stop a continuous regress of democracy, which requires radical and systemic changes to stop it. I am convinced that if the authorities continue to ignore the arguments, reject the civilized culture of political struggle, not to listen to the voice raised by me and other likeminded citizens, the voices of shooting will be heard more often inside Armenia, which will throw Armenia back for decades, deepening discouragement and undermining the foundations of Armenia.
YEREVAN (Reuters) - A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers a development the Armenian military said was illegal and would be harshly punished anti-government protests in YEREVAN on Monday in a development the Armenian military said was illegal and would be harshly punished. The move, likely to deepen the country’s biggest political crisis in a decade, follows days of street protests against Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power. Before being appointed prime minister, Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power, did a 10-year stint as president. Under a constitutional change, most state powers are now invested in Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power's new role. anti-government protests in the capital Yerevan, though peaceful so far, threaten to destabilize a key Russian ally in a volatile region riven by a long low level conflict between the country’s and Azerbaijan and would, if successful, be a rare example of people power delivering reform in the country’s. Tens of thousands of protesters have marched through YEREVAN in recent days, blocking streets and staging sit-ins. Tens of thousands of protesters are demanding that Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power resign to pave the way for early elections, something Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power has so far refused to do. On Sunday, police detained three opposition leaders and nearly 200 protesters, drawing a rebuke from the European Union. On Monday, A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers could be seen marching in YEREVAN with protesters. Images broadcast on the Internet and social media showed A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers hugging protesters and waving the country’s's national flag. The Armenian Defense Ministry condemned what The Armenian Defense Ministry said was A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers's illegal action, saying A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers belonged to a brigade of military peacekeepers. “The harshest legal measures will be taken against A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers,” The Armenian Defense Ministry said in a statement.
Protests in Armenia continued for a fourth straight day on April 16, growing to an estimated 10,000 people and effectively shutting down Yerevan’s downtown. an estimated 10,000 people also disrupted metro operations and stormed university campuses. Protests in Armenia also saw Protests in Armenia's first violence, with several clashes between police and protesters. As a result, 46 people, including six police officers, were injured, Armenia's Health Ministry reported. Protests in Armenia are aimed at preventing Serzh Sargsyan from assuming the position of prime minister. Serzh Sargsyan resigned as president a week earlier and, under a new constitution that makes the prime minister Armenia's most powerful figure, is set to extend Serzh Sargsyan's unpopular rule indefinitely. It remains unclear what effect Protests in Armenia will have on Serzh Sargsyan's rule, but Protests in Armenia have already grown far larger than most observers expected, creating one of the biggest crises in Serzh Sargsyan's ten years in power. Protests in Armenia appeared to be dispersed widely throughout Yerevan’s's downtown, expanding from Protests in Armenia's center around France Square. Crowds, led by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan, stormed the downtown campuses of Yerevan Basic Medical College and Pedagogical University. Protesters also shut down Baghramyan Avenue, blocking the National Assembly, where members are scheduled to elect Serzh Sargsyan as prime minister on April 17. Throughout April 16, protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan kept stressing that “the police are our brothers” and repeatedly apologized to policemen for the inconvenience caused by Protests in Armenia and called on protesters not to attack police, verbally or otherwise. Many followed protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's lead by offering police officers tulips. For a time, the tactic worked and thousands of protesters were able to easily pass through police cordons. But the tension ultimately snapped when, in the afternoon, Serzh Sargsyan gave Serzh Sargsyan's first public reaction to the nomination by Serzh Sargsyan's party, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia. “Serzh Sargsyan'm ready to take on this responsibility,” Serzh Sargsyan said in an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestiya. an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestiya was soon followed by the news that his party, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia and his party, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia's partners, ARF Dashnaksutyun, unanimously ruled to formally introduce Serzh Sargsyan as the Republicans and their partners, ARF Dashnaksutyun,'s coalition's nominee for the position of prime minister. Reacting to the news that the Republicans and their partners, ARF Dashnaksutyun, unanimously ruled to formally introduce Sargsyan as their coalition's nominee for the PM’s office, the crowd led by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan tried to storm the National Assembly, where members are scheduled to elect Sargsyan as prime minister on April 17. Police blocked Crowds, led by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's way with barbed wire and used batons, as well as stun and sound grenades, to disperse Crowds, led by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan. protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan was injured in several clashes between police and protesters and taken to hospital. protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan later said protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's injuries came from cutting protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's hands on barbed wire and a stun grenade explosion, and not from police batons. Returning to the protest scene, protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan was greated by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's fellow MPs from protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's bloc in parliament, Yelk. protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan gained another prominent ally on Monday in radical opposition leader Jirayr Sefilian, who publicly endorsed Protests in Armenia from radical opposition leader Jirayr Sefilian, who publicly endorsed the protests from his jail cell's jail cell. One of April 16 most dramatic episodes took place on Koryun Street, where students disrupting traffic were the incident by a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan. After giving a brutal beating to a number of protesters, a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan got back into a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan's cars and drove away. Despite the heavy police presence, officers made no attempt to arrest a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan. RFE/RL’s Armenian service recorded the incident, and while a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan have yet to be identified, a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan's vehicle, style of dress and violent behavior suggests a connection to organized crime or Armenia's oligarchs (the two are often interlinked). In an attempt to put a stop to several clashes between police and protesters, protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan ultimately reached an agreement with Yerevan’s's deputy police chief Valery Osipyan: as an estimated 10,000 people retreated a few steps back from barbed wire, the police promised to not use force. Standing in front of barbed wire with a black eye, protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan's right hand bandaged, protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan urged an estimated 10,000 people to keep control of Baghramyan Avenue overnight and begin blockading all the streets leading to the National Assembly, where members are scheduled to elect Sargsyan as prime minister on April 17.
After almost two weeks of mass protests, Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, announced on Monday, April 23, that Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, would his resignation down. Commentators in Russia and internationally expressed fears that the political crisis could lead to a renewed escalation of the frozen military conflict over Nagorno-Karabkh with neighboring Azerbaijan with potentially far-reaching consequences for Nagorno-Karabkh. mass protests started 11 days earlier, after Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, announced Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, would be Armenia’s's prime minister after serving 10 years as president. In 2015, Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, had pushed for changes to the constitution that would give Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, the same powers as prime minister that Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, had wielded as president. Initially limited to a few hundred people, drawn largely from supporters of the liberal, pro-EU opposition, mass protests rapidly embraced broader sections of the population and spread to cities other than the capital, Yerevan. By April 21, about 100,000 people had joined the protests across Armenia’s. Thousands of students at Armenia’s's most important universities went on strike. There were also reports of strikes by workers at a number of factories. In Armenia’s, mass protests involved a significant portion of the population and are among the largest in Armenian history. The scope of the protests, which took virtually everyone by surprise, and the involvement of sections of the working class indicate that more was involved than just the machinations of the pro-EU opposition, which has received barely 8 percent of the votes in Armenia’s's last parliamentary elections. After over a decade in power, Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, was widely associated with a state of corruption and ill-begotten wealth at the top side-by-side with desperate poverty for the majority of the population. The official unemployment rate stands at almost 18 percent, and almost every third Armenian lives beneath the very low poverty line. The average salary in the capital, Yerevan was just $390 a month in 2016. Unlike Russia, neighboring Azerbaijan or Kazakhstan, Armenia’s does not have any significant raw material resources, making Armenia’s one of the poorest and economically most underdeveloped states that emerged out of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. Since then, about a third of the population has left Armenia’s because of the lack of jobs in Armenia’s. Hundreds of protesters were arrested by the government, including several opposition leaders. On Monday, up to 200,000 people—almost a tenth of Armenia’s's population—again took to the streets calling for Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, to step down. Hundreds of members of the armed forces as well as clergy joined mass protests, indicating that important sections of the state apparatus had by then also turned against Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan,. However, the biggest fear of the Armenian bourgeoisie as a whole was that mass protests would turn into a full-blown movement by the working class. In a desperate attempt to regain control over the situation, Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, announced Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan,'s resignation, describing mass protests as a “turning point for Armenia’s.” Tens of thousands of people celebrated Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan,'s resignation. Pashinian immediately stepped forward, demanding snap elections and for allies of Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, in Armenia’s to step down. Protests in support of Pashinian and the liberal, pro-EU opposition on Tuesday drew significantly fewer people than those of the previous days, with about 10,000 supporters marching in the capital, Yerevan. Russia has issued statements, insisting that Protests in support of Pashinian and the opposition on Tuesday were a matter of Armenia’s's internal affairs, and indicating Russia's hope for a “smooth and peaceful political transition.” There is little question that Russia, like the Armenian political establishment, fears a movement of the working class in the Caucasus that could quickly spread beyond the borders of Armenia’s. While broader sections of the working class and youth were involved in mass protests, under conditions of the absence of any political organization that expresses broader sections of the working class and youth's interests, broader sections of the working class and youth has been able to step forward in an attempt to reassert control over the situation in the interests of the bourgeoisie and to advance broader sections of the working class and youth's own foreign policy agenda. The political crisis in Armenia’s has implications far beyond the borders of Armenia’s. Due to Armenia’s's geographic location in the Caucasus, which functions as a bridgehead between eastern Europe and the Middle East and possesses some of the world’s largest oil reserves, developments in the Caucasus have far-reaching implications for the geopolitical situation internationally. Ever since 1991, Armenia’s has maintained very close ties to Russia, by far Armenia’s's most important economic and military partner. Russia also has an important military base in southern Armenia. In recent years, however, Armenia’s has undertaken tentative steps toward a rapprochement with the EU. Yet in 2013, Armenia’s backed away from signing an Association Agreement with the EU, and instead this move the Russia-led Eurasian Union. broader sections of the working class and youth has sharply criticized this move and has continued to advocate for an Association Agreement with the EU. In February 2017, Armenia’s announced that Armenia’s wanted to work within both the EU and the Russia-led Eurasian Union, and signed an agreement for closer economic and political ties with the EU. broader sections of the working class and youth advocates a pro-market platform and deeper cooperation with the EU, including the EU membership. Several members and trustees of the opposition party Civil Contract, which Pashinian represents, are entrepreneurs, current or former members of the Armenian political establishment, or are working in the US. The tactical differences over foreign policy within the bourgeoisie have been significantly exacerbated by the escalating war drive of US imperialism against Russia in both eastern Europe and the Middle East, while the development of growing working class struggles in both Europe and the Middle East has sent shock waves through the ruling class in both the EU and the Eurasian Union. Armenia’s is surrounded by Turkey, Georgia, neighboring Azerbaijan and Iran. Turkey is a NATO member and has historically had hostile relations with Armenia’s, while Georgia and neighboring Azerbaijan are closely aligned with US imperialism. Iran, Armenia’s's only foreign policy ally among Iran's neighbors, was shaken by mass working class protests last winter. At the same time, the increasingly aggressive posture of US imperialism, which threatens all-out war with Iran, Armenia’s only foreign policy ally among its neighbors, has exacerbated nervousness and tensions in the Caucasus. Russian media have been running reports that US-backed Israel and Iran, Armenia’s only foreign policy ally among its neighbors are standing on the brink of war. Armenia’s has been in a state of war with Armenia’s's neighbor, Azerbaijan, over Nagorno-Karabkh since the late 1980s. The war over Nagorno-Karabkh from 1988 to 1994 took the lives of 20,000 to 30,000, wounded 50,000 and permanently displaced hundreds of thousands of people. The war over the territory from 1988 to 1994 was never resolved, and border clashes have occurred repeatedly in recent years. Both in the Russian media and in Armenia’s there were warnings that the current political crisis might fuel a renewed outbreak of The war over the territory from 1988 to 1994. Thus, the Russian online newspaper Gazeta.Ru warned that the Caucasus could become “something like a Middle East in miniature, the hearth for a new war,” if neighboring Azerbaijan were to exploit the current political crisis in Armenia’s and intervene militarily to reestablish control over Nagorno-Karabkh. Azerbaijan, one of the most important oil-producing countries in the world’s, has maintained close ties to both the EU and especially US imperialism, which has built up extensive ties with Azeri oil and gas companies since 1991. neighboring Azerbaijan has also been an important ally in the US war preparations against Iran, Armenia’s only foreign policy ally among its neighbors and would likely receive US backing in any open military clash with Armenia’s.
MOSCOW — After weeks of nationwide protests, street parties and jubilant mayhem, on Wednesday the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement urged the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement's flock to rest, confident victory is finally within sight. Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight It followed a turbulent 24 hours: After the Armenian parliament voted against making the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement prime minister on Tuesday evening, the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement ratcheted up the pressure by organizing the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement's largest-ever strikes and blockades of major roads including, briefly, the access highway to Armenia’s's sole international airport. To an estimated crowd of 150,000 people in the center of the capital, Yerevan, the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement said Tuesday evening the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement has since persuaded lawmakers to cross party lines and vote for the “people’s candidate” — the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement — in the new vote on May 8. Armenia’s's parliament voted 55 to 45 on Tuesday against making the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement prime minister, two weeks after Serzh Sargsyan was ousted from prime minister. If the vote next week also fails, the Armenian parliament will be dissolved and new elections would need to take place at least a month later. Acting prime minister Karen Karapetyan, an ally of Serzh Sargsyan and a former executive at the Russian gas giant Gazprom, will stay in place. Impoverished, landlocked and with close ties to MOSCOW, Armenia’s has been under the careful watch of both Russia and the West as recent events unfolded. Armenia’s has long relied on Russia for energy needs and economic backing. Armenia’s also counts on Russia for keeping Armenia’s's simmering conflict with neighboring Azerbaijan at bay, although MOSCOW sells arms to both countries. the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement has repeatedly insisted the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement's movement is unmotivated by geopolitics, and instead by the need to dismantle the ruling elite’s authoritarian grip on power. But Russia has been steadily emerging as a player in Armenia’s's political turmoil. In an open letter to Russian President Vladi­mir Putin on Wednesday, the director of a reputable Armenian news site urged Russian President Vladi­mir Putin to stay out of Armenian politics. Some argue showing loyalty toward Armenia’s's former imperial master is key to ensuring stability. Armenia’s's bloodless revolution has so far avoided the aggressive response from MOSCOW that met the overthrow of authority in other formerly Soviet republics, notably Ukraine and Georgia.
The Armenian authorities cracked down aggressively April 22 on anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week, arresting anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week's leader and temporarily throwing the movement the protests' leader led into disarray. But the protesters regrouped by evening, holding by far the protesters's largest rally to date and showing that anger at the country showed no sign of dissipating. In the morning, police the arrest of Pashinyan Nikol Pashinyan, the member of parliament who has emerged as the unlikely new hero of the opposition to longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan. the protests' leader has been the head of the protest movement that has energized the large majority of Armenians fed up with longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan's autocratic, sclerotic rule. anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week had been conducted in a decentralized fashion, with the protests' leader going on daily marches around the city and leading nightly rallies at the central Republic Square, while other supporters carried out creative acts of civil disobedience around the city. Nevertheless, the arrest of the protests' leader seemed to disorient the movement he led. The group that was with the protests' leader when the protests' leader was the arrest of Pashinyan in the city's Erebuni district marched defiantly toward the center of the city. One young man burned in effigy a stuffed Cheburashka, the Soviet cartoon character to whom longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan bears some resemblance. But The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district grew aimless after The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district were blocked at several points by police, turning around repeatedly to retrace The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district's steps and at times walking in circles. As The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district have in previous marches, The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district the cries “join The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district!” to the bystanders who lined the roads or looked out from the bystanders who lined the roads or looked out from their apartment windows's apartment windows. This day, though, the cries seemed more insistent and desperate. The mood on the march was notably more somber than on previous days. It was a substantially larger crowd than the rally the night before; one local estimate put it at 115,000 people. The police had the threat to break up any rally at the central Republic Square but The police did not follow through on the threat. Rubinyan called on protesters to carry on protesters's civil disobedience activities without the protests' leader or other leaders. “Rubinyan could be arrested tomorrow,” Rubinyan said. the protests' leader was the arrest of Pashinyan barely an hour after The meeting – televised and attended by dozens of journalists with longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan in the morning at the Marriott Hotel on the central Republic Square. The meeting – televised and attended by dozens of journalists – ended after only three minutes when longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan walked out, complaining that the protests' leader was presenting longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan with an “ultimatum” to step down. “The meeting – televised and attended by dozens of journalists is not talks, not a dialogue. an “ultimatum” to step down’s just an ultimatum, blackmail of the country, of the legitimate authorities,” longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan told the protests' leader. longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan also ominously referenced March 1, 2008, when police violently broke up crowds of protesters against longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan's election, killing ten. “You have not learned the lesson from March 1, 2008, when police violently broke up crowds of protesters against Sargsyan's election, killing ten,” longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan said. Police also arrested two other members of parliament who have been active in anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoyan, along with other organizers. anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week began April 13, in opposition to longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan continuing longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan's rule by moving from the presidency into the prime minister's seat. longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan did so as the country adopted a new constitution changing to a parliamentary form of government in which the prime minister, rather than the president, is the most powerful figure.
Armenian lawmakers are scheduled to meet on May 1 to vote on a replacement for Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister's selection as prime minister. So far, the only candidate to step forward is opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister to step down. The U.S. State Department weighed in on Armenia’s political standoff late on April 28, saying The U.S. State Department continues to "closely" monitor the situation. "The U.S. State Department support the ongoing efforts of the office of President [Armen] Sarkissian to facilitate dialogue between all parties. The U.S. State Department continue to commend the peaceful nature of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down, and trust that the security forces and those exercising those exercising their right to peaceful protest's right to peaceful protest will remain committed to nonviolence in the days to come," The U.S. State Department added. Instead of nominating Republican lawmakers's own candidate, Republican lawmakers said Republican lawmakers plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc, according to spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov. Although the party won't nominate a candidate, individual members apparently could enter the race. Former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, who was appointed acting prime minister after Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister stepped down, is a party member. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down told an evening rally on April 28 in Vanadzor, Armenia’s's third-largest city, that having Former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, who was appointed acting prime minister after Sarkisian stepped down remain in prime minister would be unacceptable. the party holds 58 seats in the 105-seat parliament, and without the party's support opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down is unlikely to be elected. However, the second-biggest party in the 105-seat parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), hinted the second-biggest party in parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) might support opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down. "party leader Gagik Tsarukian's team and party leader Gagik Tsarukian will vote for a people's candidate, whether a people's candidate's opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down or anyone else nominated by the people," party leader Gagik Tsarukian told Kentron TV. At an earlier rally on April 28 in the town of Ijevan, opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down called on supporters to continue protests and to organize big, nonviolent demonstrations in the capital, Yerevan, on May 1. "All protest actions, actions of civil disobedience, should be renewed with new force. The victory of the people must be recognized," opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down told a rally. The current crisis was triggered by Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister's shift earlier this month to the newly powerful post of prime minister after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Opposition lawmaker Pashinian, who has been leading protests for more than two weeks and has emerged as the leader of a popular protest movement, on April 27 promised no "geopolitical reversals" in front of thousands of supporters in Gyumri, Armenia’s's second-largest city and host to a large Russian military base. Russia -- Armenia’s's main ally and trading partner -- has said Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- will not intervene in The current crisis. However, President Vladimir Putin on April 26 talked on the telephone with Former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, who was appointed acting prime minister after Sarkisian stepped down calling for a quick solution to The current crisis -- one that would reflect the outcome of last year's parliamentary elections won by Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister HHK, the Kremlin said. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down on April 28 made stops in several villages and towns before reaching Vanadzor, Armenia's third-largest city,, including a rally in Ijevan, opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's hometown. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down, in opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's speeches to the local crowds on April 28, repeatedly called on local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors to publicly announce local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors's joining what opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down called a popular protest movement," in an apparent effort to consolidate opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's public support base. “opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down want to confirm that we are ready for negotiations, and we are interested in resolving these problems as soon as possible," opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down said in Ijevan, his hometown. In Gyumri, the country's second-largest city and host to a large Russian military base, opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down reiterated opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's position about maintaining good relations with Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- and not dramatically changing Armenia’s's foreign policy. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down said that, under opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's stewardship, Armenia’s would work to make the CSTO "more effective and provide more serious guarantees" for Armenia’s and Nagorno-Karabakh than the CSTO has previously. "Armenia’s will remain committed to all Armenia’s's international obligations," opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down said, including Armenia’s's partnership agreement with the European Union and Armenia’s's membership in the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union (EEU). "This does not mean that Armenia’s consider that there are no things to improve in that cooperation with the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) and the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union (EEU). And Armenia’s should seek to make these relations better," opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down said. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down was one of seven Armenian lawmakers who voted against the ratification of the the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) treaty in December 2014. last year's, the Yelk opposition alliance that includes opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's Civil Contract and two other opposition parties demanded Armenia’s's exit from Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner --. opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down's Yelk faction has only nine members in the 105-seat parliament. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which on April 25 pulled out of the governing coalition with the party, has seven.
Before Sarkisian’s departure, Pashinyan told Sarkisian’s that Pashinyan was no longer in charge of the country, and that power had shifted into the hands of the people, to which Sarkisian’s responded that someone who received “six or seven percent of the vote” could not talk about having power of the country. Just hours after Pashinyan's conversation with Sarkisian’s, Pashinyan was grabbed by security forces, and Pashinyan is currently being held in detention with two other leaders of the protests—Ararat Mirzoyan and Sasun Mikaelyan (Yelk faction MPs)—in an undisclosed location. According to sources, two other leaders of the protests—Ararat Mirzoyan and Sasun Mikaelyan (Yelk faction MPs)—in an undisclosed location were charged with violations of the order established by the country's Law on Freedom of Assembly. Meanwhile, chaos ensued on the streets of Yerevan following Pashinyan's failed negotiations. Tens of thousands of people continued to protest, and some are placing estimates between 60,000 and 100,000 demonstrators. Hours ago, police issued a statement that the protests are considered unlawful and that police will use all means necessary to disperse people. The president of the National Assembly, Ara Babloyan, has also issued a statement calling for the need for political dialogue. Follow RFE/RL’s Armenian service live stream of the protests below.
Глава правительства Армении Саргсян подал в отставку, говорится в сообщении пресс-службы премьера. В заявлении Саргсян указал, что в последний раз обращается к гражданам как глава правительства. «Никол Пашинян был прав. Я был не прав в сложившейся ситуации. У ситуации есть несколько решений, но ни на одно из них я не пойду. Это не мое. Я оставляю должность руководителя нашей страны», — цитирует пресс-служба слова Саргсяна. «Улица против моего назначения. И я выполняю ваше требование», — сообщил премьер. Саргсян также подчеркнул, что выступает против применения армии для разрешения конфликта. Пресс-секретарь премьера Ованнес Никогосян подтвердил РБК, что Саргсян уходит в отставку. Утром 23 апреля Министерство обороны Армении подтвердило, что к акциям протеста в Ереване присоединились часть военнослужащих из состава миротворческой бригады. В военном ведомстве указали, что солдаты самовольно покинули свою часть. По данным PanArmenian, речь шла в том числе о контрактниках и бывших участниках конфликта в Нагорном Карабахе. Акции против избрания Саргсяна премьером Армении начались 13 апреля. Он дважды избирался на пост президента, в 2008 и 2013 годах, а главой правительства стал после того, как Армения по Конституции фактически превратилась в парламентскую республику. Оппозиция обвиняла Саргсяна в неэффективном управлении и ухудшении экономической ситуации в стране. 17 апреля противники политика объявили о начале «бархатной революции». Несмотря на протесты, парламент Армении в тот же день избрал Саргсяна главой кабмина. Численность прошедшего накануне, 22 апреля, митинга в Ереване местные СМИ оценили в 160 тыс. человек. В тот же день полиция задержала в столице около 300 участников протестных акций. На проспекте Арцаха в столице Армении прошли столкновения сотрудников правоохранительных органов с демонстрантами. Полиция была вынуждена применить светошумовые гранаты.
YEREVAN (A.W.)—Moments ago, Serge Sarkisian his resignation from Serge Sarkisian's post as Armenia’s Prime Minister after nearly two weeks of protests, demonstrations, and acts of civil disobedience across YEREVAN and other parts of Armenia’s calling for Serge Sarkisian's resignation. “Nikol Pashinyan was right. Serge Sarkisian was wrong. There are a few solutions to the current situation, but Serge Sarkisian am not one of a few solutions to the current situation. Serge Sarkisian am resigning as Armenia’s's leader, and leaving the post of Armenia’s's Prime Minister,” the statement went on. “proud citizen of the Republic of Armenia have this victory, proud citizen of Armenia’s. And no one can snatch this victory from proud citizen of the Republic of Armenia's hands,” Pashinyan, who was released from detention prior to the statement, wrote on Nikol Pashinyan's official Facebook page. “Nikol Pashinyan congratulate victorious people, victorious people,” Nikol Pashinyan's post concluded. More to follow.
Националистическая партия «Дашнакцутюн», имеющая семь мест в парламенте Армении, поддержит на выборах премьер-министра кандидатуру Никола Пашиняна, заявил изданию «Новости Армении» представитель партии Арсен Амбарцумян. Также партия «Процветающая Армения» Гагика Царукяна, у которой второе место после правящей Республиканской партии (РПА) по числу мест в парламенте (31 из 105), отказалась от идеи выдвигать своего кандидата и проголосует на выборах премьер-министра за лидера протестов Никола Пашиняна. О таком решении РБК рассказал источник, близкий к партии Царукяна, и подтвердил собеседник, близкий к Пашиняну. По их словам, Царукян отказался от идеи выдвинуться в качестве кандидата в премьеры и рекомендует депутатам «Процветающей Армении» поддержать на голосовании Пашиняна. Ранее в субботу, 28 апреля, стало известно, что РПА, контролирующая 58 мест в парламенте страны, не будет выдвигать своего кандидата на выборы главы правительства Армении. Вице-спикер и пресс-секретарь РПА Эдуард Шармазанов пояснил, что намерен рассмотреть всех кандидатов, которые будут выдвинуты до 1 мая (на этот день назначено специальное заседание парламента, в ходе которого планируется рассмотреть вопрос о выборах премьер-министра). Лидер оппозиции Никол Пашинян был выдвинут на выборы премьера фракцией «Елк», которую он возглавляет. У нее девять мест в парламенте. Таким образом, у оппозиции 47 депутатов, но для выбора премьера необходимо 53 голоса. Пашинян рассчитывает, что ему удастся получить недостающие голоса для избрания, сказал РБК его соратник Ален Симонян. В случае если республиканцы не утвердят Пашиняна, оппозиционеры «сделают ответный шаг», сообщил Симонян.
YEREVAN -- Armenian lawmakers the vote in parliament on May 1 to elect a new prime minister, with Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- the only candidate officially nominated for a new prime minister. On Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s way to a rally of Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s supporters in YEREVAN on April 30, Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- told journalists that Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s top priority if Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- is elected would be "preparation of free and democratic elections" in Armenia. "Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- think this energy has transformed [into] something great in Armenia," Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- added, commenting on the peaceful protests that led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian on April 23. At a rally of his supporters in Yerevan on April 30, Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- told supporters to return to YEREVAN's central Republic Square at 11 a.m. local time on May 1 to monitor the vote in parliament on large screens set up overnight. "The Armenian people will be celebrating The Armenian people's victory here," Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- said. Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- urged supporters not to block traffic or to assemble outside the parliament building. The deadline for nominations expired at 6 p.m. local time on April 30 with Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- listed as the only candidate. Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- was nominated earlier in April 30 by Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s Yelk alliance. Pashinian. 42, already secured the support of all opposition factions in parliament. After meeting with HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian on April 29, Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- told reporters there was no mood among members of the Republican Party "to thwart" the vote in parliament. "There is a mood that a prime minister should be elected on May 1," Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- said, without elaborating. HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian told reporters that HHK would not hinder the election of Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- if the other factions in parliament support Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s candidacy. Meanwhile, the former ruling-coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun, announced that the former ruling-coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun, will support Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- in the May 1 vote. the former ruling-coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun,'s decision came after the HHK, which has 58 seats in parliament, decided on April 28 that HHK would not nominate HHK's own candidate. The second-largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, also has pledged to support Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --. The second-largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, controls 31 seats in parliament. Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change --'s Yelk alliance has nine seats. That means Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- needs support from at least six members of HHK to be elected. HHK spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov said Republican lawmakers plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc. Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- has led weeks of street demonstrations in Armenia that resulted in the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian from a new prime minister.
Депутаты национального собрания Армении (парламент) проголосовали против лидера протестов Никола Пашиняна, который выдвигался на пост премьер-министра. На заседании присутствовали 103 депутата из 105. Для победы Пашиняну необходимо было получить как минимум 53 голоса. За его кандидатуру выступило 45 депутатов, против — 56. Согласно Конституции Армении, если с первой попытки парламент не выбирает премьера, то на седьмой день должно быть проведено новое голосование с новыми кандидатами. На этот раз кандидатуру на пост премьера сможет выдвигать как минимум одна треть от общего числа депутатов (35) вне зависимости от их принадлежности к фракциям. Если премьер-министр со второго раза не избирается большинством голосов от общего числа депутатов, парламент распускается. Исполняющим обязанности премьера до перевыборов парламента в этом случае останется Карен Карапетян. У оппозиции остается два выхода: либо идти по конституционному пути, либо использовать неконституционные методы, что чревато негативными последствиями как для внутренней политики, так и для безопасности республики, констатирует армянский политолог Джони Меликян. Пашинян стал единственным кандидатом на пост премьера, выдвинутым от парламентских фракций на голосование 1 мая. Его выдвинул в качестве кандидата на пост премьера оппозиционный блок «Елк», который он возглавляет в парламенте. О своем намерении стать «народным кандидатом» Пашинян объявил протестующим на одном из митингов в центре Еревана на площади Республики на прошлой неделе. Накануне голосования три фракции парламента — «Елк» (девять депутатов), блок «Процветающая Армения» Гагика Царукяна (31 депутат) и «Дашнакцутюн» (семь депутатов) объявили, что будут голосовать за Пашиняна. Правящая Республиканская партия, у которой 58 мест в парламенте, пообещала не срывать голосование и обеспечить кворум. Незадолго до голосования глава фракции Республиканской партии Армении Ваграм Багдасарян заявил в парламенте, что вся фракция РПА проголосует против кандидатуры Пашиняна. По словам Багдасаряна, «ультиматумами, шантажом политические решения не принимаются»​. Он уточнил, что партия «признает победу народного движения» и согласна с «с критикой социально-экономической ситуации в стране», однако они выступят против кандидатуры Пашиняна «​во избежание видимых угроз, большой волны нестабильности». Также спикер парламента, член РПА Ара Баблоян заявил, что «вся критика, которая прозвучала из уст оппозиции и правящей партии, дала понять, что Армения находится в политическом кризисе и его нужно решить мирным путем».
Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan failed to collect enough votes to become Armenia’s new prime minister after leading a massive campaign to oust the ruling authorities for several weeks. 102 lawmakers out of the 105 overall were attending the special sitting of the National Assembly who did not approve Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan in Armenia’s new prime minister post after Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan's predecessor was forced to resign amid protests across Armenia’s just one week after taking up the PM’s post. Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan needed more than half of all the votes - the support of 53 lawmakers - to secure the PM’s post's spot, but got only 45. A second vote will be held a week later, and Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan needs to collect at least one third of the votes to win. the National Assembly was set to elect a new prime minister on Tuesday after his predecessor was ousted amid massive protests across Armenia’s just one week after taking up the PM’s post. Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan leads a street campaign against the ruling authorities, which has seen thousands of Armenians taking to the streets in massive protests. his predecessor was forced to resign on April 23, and Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan is now seeking the appointment as prime minister by the National Assembly of what Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan calls “the people’s candidate”, - i.e. Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan - the formation of an interim government and snap parliamentary elections.
Leaders of Armenia's ruling party decamped to a ski resort as protesters in Yerevan have taken over central parts of Yerevan in an attempt to disrupt longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan from continuing longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan's rule. Protests, which began on Friday, April 13, with an estimated 4,500 people, continued the following day with crowds that appeared roughly similar in size. Following Friday, April 13's political speeches, the following day's demonstrations had more of a carnival atmosphere: Traditional Armenian line dances were followed by hip-hop and pop music, interrupted from time to time with “Make a step, reject longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan!” chants, which have become the slogan of Saturday's demonstrations. Teenagers, young urbanites, and middle-aged Yerevan residents could be seen dancing side by side. Saturday's demonstrations didn't go unnoticed by the ruling Republican Party of Armenia's. Protesters had vowed to block Armenia's ruling party's headquarters on April 14, where leaders were going to the meeting in the capital to formally nominate longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan – until a week previous, Armenia's's president – as Armenia's ruling party's candidate for prime minister. Instead, Armenia's ruling party abruptly canceled the meeting in Yerevan and convened in Tsaghkadzor, a ski resort some 35 miles away from Yerevan. There, Armenia's ruling party unanimously voted to formally nominate longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan for the PM’s office. On the following day, the ARF Dashnaksutyun Supreme Council of Armenia's officially endorsed longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan. the ARF Dashnaksutyun Supreme Council of Armenia is Armenia's ruling party's partner in the governing coalition, although the ARF Dashnaksutyun Supreme Council of Armenia holds only seven seats in the National Assembly. Being outfoxed by those in power, the opposition retreated to irony. “longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan was taken to a ski resort … longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan was subjected to trafficking,” said Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan as Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan addressed protesters gathered in France Square, the central node of the demonstrations in Yerevan. Dropping the irony, Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan then called on all opposition forces to unite against longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan's prolonged rule. “Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan guess all opposition forces can sort out other issues later,” Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan said. Meanwhile, Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – kept making headlines. Joined by a group of protesters and the press, Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – stormed the headquarters of Armenian Public Radio on Alek Manukyan street in Yerevan. In the building lobby, protesters in Yerevan were met by police guards armed with assault rifles, and Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – and supporters held up Pashinyan and supporters's hands in a sign of peaceful resistance. Security eventually let Pashinyan and supporters through, and Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – made it to the studio where Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – accused state broadcasters of ignoring Saturday's demonstrations and demanded live airtime to call on Armenian citizens to join in. About 100 protesters had stayed overnight on France Square, the central node of the demonstrations in Yerevan after the first day of demonstrations, and an equal number did the same Saturday night, some sleeping in tents, others gathered around fires. As of Sunday morning, the Armenian police had made no effort of disrupting demonstrations, in significant contrast to the Armenian police's handling of mass protests in the summers of 2015 and 2016, when the Armenian police dispersed crowds violently. The mood among the opposition appeared celebratory. “Marine Mamikonian, a young architect who moved from Russia to Yerevan last year like it here, and Marine Mamikonian, a young architect who moved from Russia to Yerevan last year’ll come tomorrow at 6:30 pm again,” wrote Marine Mamikonian, a young architect who moved from Russia to Yerevan last year, in a text conversation with Eurasianet on Saturday night.
The Armenian Revolutionary Federation-Dashnaksutyun (ARF-D) has expressed support to the ruling Republican Party’s decision nominate Serzh Sargsyan for the prime minister of Armenia. In a statement released on Saturday, the ruling Republican Party’s Executive Body reaffirms the party’s Executive Body's commitment to the strategic goals and political priorities enshrined in the May 11, 2017 coalition agreement. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation-Dashnaksutyun (ARF-D) approves Serzh Sargsyan's candidacy, citing the positive dynamics observed since the 2015 constitutional reforms. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation-Dashnaksutyun (ARF-D) expresses hope that the progress recorded signals the ruling Republican Party’s's reasonable choice despite the still existing challenges and problems requiring an urgent solution.
The Armenian parliament has voted in support of Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia, as prime minister on April 17. 77 MPs voted for Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia's candidature, 17 against. Now that Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia has become the premier, the power levers will be concentrated in Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia's hands again. Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia's candidature was supported unanimously by the ruling Republican Party of Armenia and the coalition party Dashnaktsutyun ARF. Allegedly opposition party Tsarukyan had a free vote, as a result, about ten members of opposition party Tsarukyan gave about ten members of the party's votes to Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia. A group of MPs from the Yelk (Way Out) Party voted against Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia. Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia thanked the MPs who supported Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia and opposition MPs for criticism and said that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia and the coalition party Dashnaktsutyun ARF are no taking a great responsibility and are ready to drive the country through the way of dynamic development. Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia also spoke on protest action taking place in Yerevan for several days running. “If you believe that seizure of government offices is a peaceful action, if you believe that the protesters must come to The Armenian parliament and draft laws instead of you, these are your approaches. If not, you must take the opposite side, the side of the law. Had the people supported unlawful actions, millions would have taken to the streets. You all know how many people have done so,” Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia said. Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia advised that MPs from the Yelk (Way Out) Party brought A group of MPs from the Yelk (Way Out) Party's colleague Nikol Pashinyan who is leading protest action taking place in Yerevan for several days running from the streets to The Armenian parliament.
Radio Azatutyun. Hundreds of people the actions more streets in the center of Yerevan on Monday on the fourth day of Hundreds of people's nonstop demonstrations aimed at preventing former President Serzh Sarkisian from extending former President Serzh Sarkisian's rule. Hundreds of people began the actions from a key street intersection that has been occupied by Hundreds of people since Friday. On Sunday, Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of their nonstop demonstrations aimed at preventing former President Serzh Sarkisian from extending his rule, called for more large-scale “acts of civil disobedience” that would paralyze traffic in Yerevan. Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests also urged people to go on strike and boycott classes in universities. Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests vowed to try to disrupt Tuesday’s session of the Armenian parliament during which former President Serzh Sarkisian is due to be elected prime minister. Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests pleaded with Armenians to take part in Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests's rallies in larger numbers. On Monday morning, Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests and a group of Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests's supporters moved to nearby Marshal Bagramian Avenue leading to the parliament building, this minor inconvenience public buses and cars in the process. Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests repeatedly apologized to commuters through a megaphone. “With this minor inconvenience Pashinian and a group of his supporters are trying to save commuters from a greater inconvenience called former President Serzh Sarkisian,” shouted Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests. Lines of riot police stopped Pashinian and a group of his supporters from advancing further towards the parliament building. Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests told a group of his supporters to avoid any violent confrontations with riot police.
At least 169 people were detained in Yerevan on Friday as the Armenian police tried to stop opposition supporters from again blocking streets in protest against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. The protests mainly involving young people resumed in various parts of Yerevan in the morning following opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s calls for a “total blockade” of streets as well as roads leading to Yerevan. Hundreds of protesters led by opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s marched through Yerevan's northern and western districts, urging Armenians to “reject Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian” and again rally in central Republic Square in the evening. Hundreds of protesters led by Pashinian were greeted by many bystanders and car drivers honking their horns in response to opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s's appeal to “beep if you are against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian.” Many car horns reverberated throughout Yerevan. One of Yerevan's main bridges was blocked by three heavy trucks when Hundreds of protesters led by Pashinian reached early in the afternoon. three heavy trucks left three heavy trucks's vehicles parked there and joined the Pashinian-led march. Meanwhile, smaller groups of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s supporters tried to shut down traffic in several other parts of Yerevan. smaller groups of Pashinian supporters were confronted by riot police keen to keep the roads open. Dozens of protesters were detained as a result. Several hundred employees one of the country’s largest information technology firms, Synopsys Armenia, went on strike and blocked a major street adjacent to Several hundred employees one of the country’s largest information technology firms, Synopsys Armenia,'s company’s offices. Police intervened to reopen Arshakuniats Avenue to traffic 30 minutes later. one of the country’s largest information technology firms, Synopsys Armenia engineers were joined by other protesters later in the afternoon. More than two hundred students marched unimpeded through downtown Yerevan in the meantime. According to the police, the total number of detainees stood at 169 as of 2 p.m. local time. RFE/RL correspondents witnessed two dozen people bundled into police vans, personal cars and even public buses used by the police. Plainclothes policemen were also involved in the operation. More than a hundred protesters were detained and kept in police custody for several hours on Wednesday.
Angry demonstrations against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s rule continued unabated in Yerevan on Saturday despite fresh mass detentions of Angry demonstrations against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s rule's participants. Thousands of people again took to the streets of Armenia’s capital and other towns to demand that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s step down after having governed Armenia’s as president for ten years. Security forces again scrambled to stop Thousands of people from blocking streets ahead of yet another big rally which the protest leader, Nikol Pashinian, planned to hold in Yerevan's central Republic Square in the evening. A police spokesman said that at least 93 people were the detentions into police custody as of 4 p.m. local time. at least 93 people included Armen Grigorian, a civic activist actively involved in Angry demonstrations against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s rule. Amateur video posted on Facebook showed that Armen Grigorian, a civic activist actively involved in the protests was detained inside a Yerevan café. The police issued fresh statements on Saturday, saying that street blockades and other unsanctioned gatherings are illegal and can be dispersed. Neither fresh statements nor the detentions seemed to contain the wave of protesters. Police detained several other drivers and impounded several other drivers's cars as Police repeatedly unblocked traffic through. Mashtots Avenue, one of Yerevan's main arteries. Earlier in Saturday, traders working at a big retail market in the western Malatia district went on strike and marched to the city center to voice support for the unprecedented campaign for Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation. Several of traders working at a big retail market in the western Malatia district were detained in the process. Meanwhile, the protest leader, Nikol Pashinian, led a bigger crowd marching through the northern Nor Nork, Avan and Zeytun districts. the protest leader, Nikol Pashinian, said “hundreds of thousands” of Armenians should rally on the city’s central Republic Square at 7 p.m. The more than weeklong protests on Saturday spread to Echmiadzin, a small town about 15 kilometers west of Yerevan. More than a thousand people rallied there before heading to Yerevan on foot in the afternoon. In an apparent bid to stop people from Echmiadzin, a small town about 15 kilometers west of Yerevan and nearby villages from reaching Yerevan, government loyalists led by Arakel Movsisian, a controversial former parliamentarian, blocked a highway with heavy trucks commandeered by government loyalists led by Arakel Movsisian, a controversial former parliamentarian,. One of heavy trucks commandeered by them was dragged away and forced into a nearby compound on Arakel Movsisian, a controversial former parliamentarian,'s orders. Police officers at the scene did not intervene.
Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian told the Armenian government on Thursday to reverse the Armenian government's controversial decision to grant Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian ownership of a mansion where Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian has lived since becoming president in 2008. a mansion where he has lived since becoming president in 2008 is part of a secluded government compound in Yerevan which has also been home to other high-ranking state officials. Former Presidents Levon Ter-Petrosian and Robert Kocharian, also lived in a secluded government compound in Yerevan which has also been home to other high-ranking state officials with Former Presidents Levon Ter-Petrosian and Robert Kocharian's family members while in office. Former Presidents Levon Ter-Petrosian and Robert Kocharian were provided with free housing in other, more remote parts of Yerevan after leaving office. the Armenian government formally the decision strongly condemned by opposition leaders and Nikol Pashinian in particular the free privatization of a mansion where he has lived since becoming president in 2008 at an April 2 meeting chaired by then Prime Minister Karen Karapetian. the Armenian government gave no explanation for the decision strongly condemned by opposition leaders and Nikol Pashinian in particular. Nikol Pashinian pledged to nationalize a mansion where he has lived since becoming president in 2008 in case of achieving regime change. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian defended its controversial decision to grant him ownership of a mansion where he has lived since becoming president in 2008 on Tuesday at a session of the Armenian parliament which elected Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian prime minister. But Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian made a different statement while holding the first cabinet meeting in Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's new capacity two days later. Nikol Pashinian seized up on a different statement when Nikol Pashinian addressed later in two days thousands of anti-government protesters who again rallied in the city’s Republic Square, just a few dozen meters from the venue of the first cabinet meeting in his new capacity two days later. “a different statement means that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian already feels the breath of our democratic revolution,” Nikol Pashinian said. Nikol Pashinian and several hundred protesters approached the government building during the first cabinet meeting in his new capacity two days later. Hundreds of riot police were deployed around the government building.
Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian on Saturday the premier’s appeal Nikol Pashinian to urgently the proposed talks with Pashinian with Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian on ways of ending the political crisis in Armenia resulting from massive street protests against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's rule organized by Nikol Pashinian. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said Armenia's major political forces can contribute to such dialogue. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's Republican Party, the pro-government Armenian Revolutionary Federation and President Armen Sarkissian already made similar offers to Nikol Pashinian earlier this week. Nikol Pashinian responded to Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian appeal as Nikol Pashinian continued to stage anti-government rallies in Yerevan. Nikol Pashinian said Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian resignation must be the main subject of any talks with the authorities. Nikol Pashinian set the same conditions when Nikol Pashinian addressed tens of thousands of Armenians in Yerevan's Republic Square the previous night. Nikol Pashinian said the Armenian parliament must also form an interim government and call snap general elections. In Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's statement, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said nothing about the precise subject of the proposed talks with Nikol Pashinian. Instead, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian warned of “unpredictable consequences” of the protests which entered massive street protests against his rule organized by the opposition leader's ninth day. massive street protests against his rule organized by the opposition leader are “jeopardizing public order and damaging the complex and delicate fabric of the Armenian society,” Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said.
President Armen Sarkissian met with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on Saturday during a surprise visit to Yerevan’s Republic Square where tens of thousands of people continued to demand Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation. President Armen Sarkissian was greeted with “President Armen Sarkissian, reject Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s!” and “Nikol!” chants as President Armen Sarkissian entered Yerevan’s Republic Square where tens of thousands of people continued to demand Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation hours after renewing President Armen Sarkissian's calls for a dialogue between the government and opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. The two men the conversation for 15 or so minutes there. Journalist were not allowed to approach The two men during the conversation. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian commented on The two men's conversation when opposition leader Nikol Pashinian the speech tens of thousands of people later in the evening. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said opposition leader Nikol Pashinian is open to negotiating with Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s in a “neutral venue” but reiterated that opposition leader Nikol Pashinian would only discuss “the terms” of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s's resignation. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian went on to urge even more Armenians to demonstrate across the country on Sunday “so that our positions are as strong as possible in this negotiation process.” Speaking to reporters after the speech, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said it is not yet clear when a dialogue between the government and Pashinian could start. According to the Tert.am news service, President Armen Sarkissian met with Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s after President Armen Sarkissian's brief talk with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. Earlier in Saturday, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s called on opposition leader Nikol Pashinian to “immediately” start a dialogue with the government. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian first announced opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's conditions for a dialogue with the government the previous night. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation must be followed by fresh parliamentary elections. The spokesman for the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK), Eduard Sharmazanov, criticized opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's stance as “emotional and unconstructive” on Saturday. “As regards the resignation demand, The spokesman for the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK), Eduard Sharmazanov am once again stating that the country's prime minister was elected in accordance with the country's constitution, by a free expression of the will of the country's free and proud parliamentarians,” The spokesman for the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK), Eduard Sharmazanov told the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s Armenian service (Azatutyun.am).
Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian The announcement late on Saturday that Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian and Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian have agreed to the talks the next morning and try to reach an agreement that would end continuing anti-government demonstrations held across Armenia. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said the talks will start at 10 a.m. on Sunday in the Marriott Armenia hotel located on Yerevan’s Republic Square, the main site of Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's daily demonstrations against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's rule. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian has been informed that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian is ready to discuss Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's demands for Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian to step down. The announcement came shortly after President Armen Sarkissian held separate meetings with he and Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian.
Премьер-министр Армении Серж Саргсян 22 апреля встретился с лидером протестов в Ереване, главой оппозиционного движения «Елк» Николом Пашиняном. Их переговоры продлились около трех минут. Запись встречи опубликовал в фейсбуке канал «Настоящее время». Переговоры прошли в ереванской гостинице «Армения Мариотт» в присутствии журналистов, сообщает издание Panarmenian. Пашинян заявил, что пришел обсуждать условия отставки Саргсяна и бескровной передачи власти. Премьер-министр заметил, что это не диалог, а «ультиматум и шантаж по отношению к законным властям». «Вы не представляете ситуацию в стране, она не такая, какой вы ее знали 15-20 дней назад. <…> Власть в Армении перешла в руки народа», — ответил Пашинян. Вскоре после этого Саргсян ушел со встречи с лидером оппозиции. В Армении с 13 апреля продолжаются акции против избрания бывшего президента страны Сержа Саргсяна премьер-министром. Протестующие блокировали правительственные здания, а позже начали перекрывать улицы Еревана. За время митингов несколько сотен протестующих были задержаны; позже многих из них отпустили из полиции. Кроме того, 16 апреля в ходе столкновений протестующих с полицейскими получили ранения более 40 человек, в том числе Никол Пашинян. Саргсян призвал Пашиняна «сесть за стол переговоров» во избежание «безвозвратных потерь». Лидер протестов ответил, что протестующие «готовы обсудить только вопрос о его отставке». Армения в 2015 году начала переход от президентской к парламентской форме правления, в результате чего были расширены полномочия премьер-министра, а президент стал церемониальной фигурой. Несмотря на акции протеста, 17 апреля парламент Армении избрал Саргсяна премьер-министром. До этого он был президентом страны, занимая высший пост с 2008 по 2018 год.
Yerevan's -- Tens of thousands of Armenian antigovernment demonstrators have defied a police warning and gathered on Yerevan's central Republic Square after officers detained protest leader Nikol Pashinian. protest leader Nikol Pashinian was detained during a demonstration in Yerevan's, shortly after failed talks between protest leader Nikol Pashinian and Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Two other lawmakers were detained along with more than 230 demonstrators following 10 days of mass rallies against an alleged power grab by Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Two other lawmakers's current whereabouts are unclear. protest leader Nikol Pashinian was confronted by masked police officers and other security personnel as protest leader Nikol Pashinian led a crowd of several hundred supporters the march to Yerevan's's southern Erebuni district. masked police officers and other security personnel fired stun grenades to stop the march. Police later tried to disperse crowds gathered in various parts of Yerevan's and there were clashes reported between officers and some protesters. Police said Police detained 232 protesters by 5:30 p.m. local time(1330 GMT/UTC). The Health Ministry said seven people were taken to hospital for problems related to the demonstrations. More protesters were detained in the evening on Yerevan's central Republic Square. WATCH: Armenian security forces in Yerevan's detained dozens of protesters who gathered on Yerevan's's central Republic Square on April 22. The Prosecutor-General's Office earlier said that protest leader Nikol Pashinian and Two other lawmakers, will be held for 72 hours. The Prosecutor-General's Office said in a statement that Parshinian and two other detained opposition lawmakers, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoian organized unsanctioned rallies and urged supporters to block streets and entrances to state buildings. The Prosecutor-General's Office claimed that participants of unsanctioned rallies assaulted police officers. a statement did not say whether there will be criminal charges against Parshinian and two other detained opposition lawmakers, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoian. Parshinian and two other detained opposition lawmakers, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoian's prosecution would require parliament to remove Parshinian and two other detained opposition lawmakers, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoian's parliamentary immunity. Meanwhile, thousands of protest leader Nikol Pashinian's supporters The march in Yerevan's chanting protest leader Nikol Pashinian's name. The march was led by four priests in clerical outfits. "protest leader Nikol Pashinian came here to discuss Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's resignation," protest leader Nikol Pashinian told Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian as the meeting began in Yerevan's's Marriott Hotel. "the meeting is not a dialogue, the meeting is blackmail," Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said before walking out of the meeting room where members of the media were present. the meeting lasted only three minutes, reporters said. Before walking out, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian called on Pashinian, whose political alliance, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said, had "only six or seven percent of the vote" in parliamentary elections, not to speak on behalf of the people and not to issue ultimatums to the government. protest leader Nikol Pashinian claimed Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian had lost touch with reality and urged Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's supporters to turn out in larger numbers for peaceful civil-disobedience protests across Yerevan's. protest leader Nikol Pashinian insisted that as long as peaceful civil-disobedience protests across the country were peaceful the police should not break peaceful civil-disobedience protests across the country up. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian had said on April 21 that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian sought a "political dialogue" with protest leader Nikol Pashinian.. "Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian am deeply concerned about the inner-political developments. In order to avoid irreparable losses, Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian urge protest leader Nikol Pashinian to sit at the political dialogue and negotiations table. It should be done immediately," Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said in a statement posted on Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's website. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian was the shift prime minister after Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's 10-year stint as president ended two weeks ago. Opponents says the shift effectively makes Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian a leader for life. In a 2015 referendum, backed by Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian, Yerevan's transitioned to a new system of government that reduces the presidency's power and bolsters the prime minister's role. Hundreds have been detained in Yerevan's in recent days as police seek to stop opposition supporters from blocking streets and paralyzing Yerevan's. Protesters also rallied in Yerevan's's second-largest city, Gyumri and in Vanadzor, the third-largest city in Yerevan's. Several protesters were detained in Vanadzor, the third-largest city in the country of about 3 million people on April 21. "We are concerned over reports of violence against journalists and demonstrators; we emphasize the need for those responsible for violence against police or demonstrators to be held accountable under the law," it added. "All those who have been detained while exercising All those who have been detained while exercising their fundamental right of assembly in accordance with the law's fundamental right of assembly in accordance with the law must be released immediately," Maja Kocijancic added. The OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) urged the Armenian authorities to protect and ensure the right to freedom of peaceful assembly in Yerevan's. Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian stepped down as president when Armen Sarkisian -- Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's handpicked successor -- was sworn in on April 9 after being elected by parliament. On April 17, parliament elected Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian as prime minister -- a post that is more powerful than the presidency's following the referendum.
Армянская полиция применила спецсредства и начала массовые задержания участников митинга оппозиции в Ереване, сообщает портал «Новости-Армения». ​Среди задержанных оказался лидер оппозиционной парламентской фракции «Елк», глава партии «Гражданский договор» Никол Пашинян. Кроме того, задержан депутат парламента Сасун Микаелян, который призвал митингующих после задержания Пашиняна оставаться на местах. Силовая акция началась после провала переговоров между бывшим президентом и вновь назначенным премьер-министром Армении Сержем Саргсяном и Пашиняном, которые проходили в гостинице «Мариотт». Саргсян прервал встречу и вышел. По его словам, оппозиционная фракция «Елк» набрала «7–8% голосов и не имеет права говорить от имени народа». Саргсян отметил, что переговоры с оппозицией по факту являются «ультиматумом, шантажом государства и законных властей». Он также посоветовал Пашиняну «вернуться в законное поле и пределы логичных действий». После неудачных переговоров оппозиция начала шествие в Ереване, однако, как передает «Интерфакс», полиция применила светошумовые гранаты, блокировала шествие и начала задержания. Акции протеста в Ереване начались 13 апреля. Демонстранты выступают против назначения бывшего президента Армении Сержа Саргсяна главой правительства. 17 апреля, в день официального назначения Саргсяна на пост главы кабмина, Пашинян объявил «бархатную, народную и мирную революцию» в Армении. 20 апреля в Ереване были задержаны 233 демонстранта. На следующий день на митинге задержали еще 11 человек.
Сотрудники правоохранительных органов задержали в Ереване 232 демонстранта, которые выступают против избрания премьер-министром Армении бывшего президента страны Сержа Саргсяна. Об этом сообщает агентство News.аm со ссылкой на пресс-службу полиции. Акции протеста проходят в Ереване с 13 апреля. После того как 22 апреля переговоры между Саргсяном и депутатом парламента Армении Николом Пашиняном провалились, в Ереване началось оппозиционное шествие. Власти страны начали силовую акцию против участников шествия, сообщалось о 192 задержанных. Также по обвинению в организации и проведении незаконных массовых протестов были задержаны: Никол Пашинян и депутаты Сасун Микаэлян и Арарат Мирзоян. Местонахождение Пашиняна пока неизвестно, а Арарат Мирзоян и Сасун Микаэлян доставлены в отделение полиции района Шенгавит, отмечает News.аm. В результате беспорядков пострадали семь человек, они госпитализированы. В общей сложности в больницах Еревана лечатся десять пострадавших в ходе протестов.
Massive rallies against Armenian Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian intensified on Sunday evening, with tens of thousands of people filling Yerevan’s largest square in the absence of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in Sunday. The arrests of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day and several of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day's close associates led other, younger members of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day's Civil Contract party to organize and address what was the biggest rally held since the start of the daily protests on April 13. Lena Nazarian, the sole parliament deputy from his Civil Contract party not detained yet, read out an online statement by Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day calling on Armenians to continue to demand Armenian Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian resignation with peaceful acts of “civil disobedience.” Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day also urged Armenians to avoid any violent clashes with security forces. tens of thousands of people repeatedly burst into “Nikol!” chants. “Everything must remain peaceful,” said Ruben Rubinian, a his Civil Contract party activist who moderated the biggest rally held since the start of the daily protests on April 13.Ruben Rubinian, a Civil Contract activist who moderated the rally said people must continue to block streets, hold marches and sit-ins, boycott classes and rally at Republic Square on a daily basis. Citing safety concerns, Ruben Rubinian, a Civil Contract activist who moderated the rally also made clear that all kinds of protest must end at 10 p.m. “He who stays and acts on the street after 10 o’clock has nothing to do with our movement,” Ruben Rubinian, a Civil Contract activist who moderated the rally said. Armenian Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian, rejected the demands for Sarkisian, who took over as prime minister on April 17 after serving as president for ten years,'s resignation at a televised meeting with Armenian Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's husband held in the morning. Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day was Pashinian’s arrest more than an hour later. As of Sunday night, the authorities refused to specify where Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day is being held. Opposition lawmakers tried unsuccessfully to visit Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day in custody. Opposition lawmakers were only allowed to see two other his Civil Contract party lawmakers detained in the morning. Throughout Sunday the Armenian police again described the daily protests as “illegal” and threatened to disperse the daily protests. Both the United States and the European Union urged the authorities in Yerevan’s to avoid using force against peaceful protesters. First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian said it is still “not too late” to start such a dialogue. “First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian think it wouldn’t hurt if political forces gathered [for talks,]” First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian told reporters. At the same time, First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian defended Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day's arrest and accused Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day of intransigence. First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian also dismissed Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day's calls for fresh parliamentary elections, saying that the last legislative polls held in April 2017 were legitimate. Virtually all major opposition forces, including businessman Gagik Tsarukian’s Prosperous Armenia Party, strongly condemned the arrest of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day and other protest organizers and demanded Pashinian and other protest organizers's immediate release.
A day after the detention of protest leader Nikol Pashinian, thousands of antigovernment demonstrators have once again been taking to the streets of Yerevan, calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Today marks the 11th day of mass rallies against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's shift to the newly powerful prime minister's post, which put Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian back at the country's helm less than two weeks after Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's 10-year stint as president ended.
A group of Armenian soldiers joined anti-government protests in Yerevan on Monday, the Armenian Defense Ministry said, promising A group of Armenian soldiers would be harshly punished according to the law as hundreds of opposition supporters took to the streets of Armenia's capital amid rising political turmoil. Images of hundreds of men wearing military uniforms marching with protesters had earlier appeared on a live stream of the demonstrations being broadcast on the Internet. the Armenian Defense Ministry condemned soldiers who took part in protests and said the Armenian Defense Ministry will take "harsh measures" against A group of Armenian soldiers. A group of uniformed former soldiers and veterans who fought in Nagorny Karabakh --an Azerbaijani territory occupied by Armenians in a conflict that broke out at the end of the Soviet era -- marched with protesters to parliament. On the 11th day of demonstrations in Armenia's, young men in small groups briefly blocked roads in Yerevan and shouted slogans such as "Join us!" and "Victory" and the name of protest leader Nikol Pashinyan as drivers beeped drivers's horns in support. Whereabouts of protest leader Nikol Pashinyan remains unknown after protest leader Nikol Pashinyan's talks with President Armen Sarkisian failed, followed by protest leader Nikol Pashinyan's arrest. Hundreds of students, some medical students in white coats, also marched arm-in-arm through the streets, holding Armenian flags. Tens of thousands also rallied in Yerevan over the weekend against the rule of Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan, Armenia's's former president. As a lawmaker, protest leader Nikol Pashinyan is protected by parliamentary immunity and cannot be arrested without the approval of fellow MPs. Under Armenian law, MPs can only be arrested without the approval of fellow MPs when MPs are caught committing a crime, in which case MPs can be held for up to a maximum of 72 hours. The speaker of Armenia's's parliament, the National Assembly, met protest leader Nikol Pashinyan and other detained politicians overnight, parliament's spokesman told AFP, without giving details. The speaker of Armenia's parliament, the National Assembly, was quoted as saying that The speaker of Armenia's parliament, the National Assembly, had urged protest leader Nikol Pashinyan and other detained politicians "to take part in real talks".
Минобороны Армении подтвердило, что часть военнослужащих присоединились к участникам антиправительственных протестов в Ереване. В заявлении Министерства обороны Армении говорится об участии в акции военнослужащих миротворческой бригады, которые покинули расположение своей части без разрешения. В заявлении подчеркивается, что ведомство «решительно осуждает военнослужащих миротворческой бригады», присоединившихся к протестам. В Минобороны напомнили, что солдаты ограничены в правах на свободу собрания в связи со своим статусом. Их участие в беспорядках может быть наказано по закону. Министр обороны Армении Виген Саркисян не исключил вероятность того, что к подавлению беспорядков могут быть привлечены воинские подразделения. Для этого необходимо ввести в стране режим чрезвычайной ситуации. «Положения разрабатываются в спокойных условиях на случай неспокойной ситуации. Будем надеяться, что это нам не понадобится долгие годы», — цитирует его интернет-издание News.am. Министр обороны Армении также сообщил, что на фоне протестов в Ереване вооруженные силы Азербайджана концентрируют живую силу и технику у границы с Нагорным Карабахом. Саркисян предположил, что Баку может воспользоваться нестабильностью в стране в своих интересах. «Противник следит за процессами внутри нашего государства. Не надо обладать узкоспециальными знаниями, чтобы понять, что внутренняя дестабилизация открывает путь для их действий. Вчерашнее заявление не открытие в этом плане. Но мы обязаны напомнить обществу об этой угрозе», — сказал он. РБК направил запрос в Министерство обороны Армении. Участие военных в протестах подтверждают и видео, которые очевидцы выкладывают в социальных сетях. Судя по роликам, по улицам столицы Армении идут группы мужчин в военной форме. Оружия у них в руках не видно. PanARMENIAN сообщает, что среди людей в форме есть как военнослужащие-контрактники, так и бывшие военнослужащие, участники конфликта в Нагорном Карабахе. Издание утверждает, что военные «встали впереди шествия в качестве живого щита». ​В Ереване шествие оппозиции носит мирный характер, полиция обеспечивает безопасность его участников, сообщила РБК сотрудница пресс-службы полиции Армении Айкуи Бабаджанян. «В нескольких районах города наблюдается нарушение общественного порядка, по состоянию на 12:00 задержаны 33 человека, в том числе за попытку перекрыть улицы и препятствование сотрудникам полиции», — пояснила Бабаджанян. В отделе информации администрации Ширакской области (областной центр — Гюмри) сообщили РБК, что шествие в Гюмри мирное и все спокойно. «Задержанных на сегодня нет, улицы не перекрыты, точного числа участников у нас нет», — пояснили в администрации. Акции протеста против назначения экс-президента Сержа Саргсяна премьером продолжаются в Армении с 13 апреля. Саргсян с 1993 года занимал разные посты в правительстве Армении, а с 2008 по 2018-й возглавлял страну. 17 апреля 2018 года, после ухода с поста президента, парламент вновь назначил его премьером. Это решение не было принято оппозицией: глава парламентского блока «Елк» Никол Пашинян объявил о начале «бархатной революции», после чего призвал сторонников выйти на улицы города и заблокировать административные здания. В стране начались массовые протесты. Численность прошедшего накануне, 22 апреля, митинга в Ереване местные СМИ оценили в 160 тыс. человек. В тот же день полиция задержала в столице около 300 участников протестных акций. На проспекте Арцаха в столице Армении прошли столкновения сотрудников правоохранительных органов с демонстрантами. Полиция была вынуждена применить светошумовые гранаты. Антиправительственные протесты поддержали учащиеся некоторых вузов Армении. К демонстрантам присоединились студенты Ереванского государственного университета, Ереванского государственного университета языков и социальных наук им. В.Брюсова и Ереванского государственного медицинского университета. 23 апреля они объявили о начале забастовки. Полиция Армении в воскресенье задержала лидера протестов, главу оппозиционной фракции «Елк» Никола Пашиняна. При задержании Пашинян призывал силовиков «сложить оружие и присоединиться к народу». В Москве исключили вероятность вмешательства в конфликт. Официальную позицию Кремля в связи с ситуацией в Армении высказал пресс-секретарь президента Дмитрий Песков. Он подчеркнул, что все происходящее является «исключительно внутренним делом». Вместе с тем в Кремле очень внимательно наблюдают за развитием событий, добавил Песков.
After days of protests, Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, unexpectedly an unusual move for entrenched leaders in the region facing the people’s wrath down, an unusual move for entrenched leaders in the region facing the people’s wrath. Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's ouster in Armenia’s didn’t stabilize Armenia’s, with demonstrations continuing over fears that the ruling party is unwilling to cede the power. Soon after the parliament elects a prime minister, which will be on May 1, Armenia’s will hold snap parliamentary elections. This week, we talked to Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute, about protests and Armenia’s's future. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute: The legitimacy of Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's presidency and then-prime minister was very low. Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan became president in 2008, the same year the economic crisis hit the world. There were a lot of economic and social problems in Armenia’s. At the start, the situation was very bad, then the situation stagnated. The social situation wasn’t brilliant. In those years the conflict with Nagorno-Karabakh became worse with four days of escalation in 2016. On top of that, there were the ‘usual’ problems that post-Soviet countries face, like corruption, monopolism, and oligarchy. All this did not make Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan and Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's party very popular, even in the years before protests. The trigger, however, was that Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan said that Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan would not become prime minister after the constitutional changes of 2015. But when Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan did, it crushed the little bit of legitimacy there was left. It was a political mistake to think it would be possible to rule without any legitimacy. Then just a technical thing was needed: a popular person to come out to the streets. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was really talented in that. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute: One of the reasons Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute believe Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan and Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's government didn’t is 2008, the same year the economic crisis hit the world. Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan did not want to finish Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's political career or begin Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's presidency with violence. Another reason is that the situation was extremely risky this time. Two days after Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was arrested, protests decentralized. There were a lot of people on the street but no leader. It was like a volcano with more and more demonstrations every day. protests started with youth and students, but later older people weighed in, too. protests did not just take place in Yerevan but had spread to the provinces as well. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute: It is chaos here. There are still thousands of people on the streets and roads remain blocked. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute don’t think that Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan will compromise on any of the Republican’s proposals. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan wants to take the prime minister’s chair and maybe the parliament, too. If you use all the non-Republicans in the parliament, which is possible, you need ten more voices to create a majority. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute am not sure, but this might work. If not, new elections. Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute: Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute think that new elections will be organized, Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute am just not sure when. If everything goes very fast, it could mean we have elections in late May. The main problem is, however, that the leadership of protests was extremely personified. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's political party consists of several dozens of persons. In order to organize new elections in such a short time, you need human resources. The situation in Yerevan can change by the hour, and it is the question of how long it can be without real policy working. If Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan wants to replace the political system that was constructed by the Republican’s, Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan will need people, programs, political parties, institutions and a shadow cabinet. This is a problem. It is early to say if Armenia’s will change for the better because of protests. Fieke Snijder and Mahir Zeynalov host leading figures from around the world every week to provide an in-depth overview of one of the top news events of the week. Enjoy these series? Subscribe here.
Citing the political crisis in Armenia, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) on Wednesday announced the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun)'s withdrawal from Armenia governing coalition and called for fresh parliamentary elections. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun)'s leadership also urged the Armenian parliament to elect an interim prime minister “enjoying the people’s trust.” an interim prime minister “enjoying the people’s trust's main task must be to defuse the political crisis in Armenia and hold “fully democratic” snap elections, The party’s leadership said in a statement. a statement did not specify whether the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) parliamentarians are ready to vote for the appointment of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as prime minister. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) has been represented in the government by three ministers in line with a power-sharing deal signed in February 2016 with then President Serzh Sarkisian. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) won 7 seats in the Armenian parliament. then President Serzh Sarkisian stepped down on April 23 amid massive street protests in Yerevan and other parts of Armenia organized by opposition leader Nikol Pashinian.
The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia on Tuesday hailed the success in the recent civic disobedience campaign in Armenia, promising a more intensive process towards the ratification of CEPA (Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement. According to The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia, the developments gave a clear understanding that Armenia attaches a real importance to democracy, rule of law, and fight against corruption. The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia expressed their mission's support to the universal values, as well as willingness to assist Armenia in ovecoming the current political crisis. In The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia's words, the recent civic disobedience campaign in the country proved that the Armenian citizens appreciate the values underlying CEPA (Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement. The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia added that their mission's now have a “very ambitious project” to work on. The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia also pledged further efforts by the Union towards stepping up the mutual cooperation.
U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills on Tuesday praised the Armenian police and anti-government protesters led by Nikol Pashinian for avoiding bloodshed during the Armenian police and anti-government protesters led by Nikol Pashinian's 11-day standoff that led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills noted the “professionalism” of Armenian security forces shown during the sustained protests against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian, while urging the authorities to investigate instances of violence against some protesters and journalists. “This is a great moment for the Armenian people and the spirit of democracy in this country,” stressed U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills. U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills also commended Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian, saying that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian acted like a “real leader” and listened to “the voice of the Armenian people” when Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian stepped down on Monday. Karen Karapetian, who took over as this country's acting prime minister, is due to start crisis talks with Nikol Pashinian on Wednesday. Nikol Pashinian has publicly voiced a number of political demands, including the holding of snap general elections. “We look forward to working with Karen Karapetian, who took over as Armenia’s acting prime minister, in the days ahead,” said U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills. All sides should resume All sides's dialogue to “agree on the steps forward,” U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills added.
Участники акций протеста в Ереване перекрыли дорогу из города в международный аэропорт Звартноц, передает корреспондент РБК с места событий. По словам местной жительницы Ринэ Бадалян, многие дороги в Ереване перекрыты демонстрантами. «Настрой [демонстрантов] боевой. Многие полицейские переходят к народу», — отметила она. Как рассказал РБК журналист и политический обозреватель Айк Халатян, полицейских много около здания правительства. «Пока что проходит шествие в городе. Попытки [задержать демонстрантов] были. Но после того, как дорогу разблокировали, чтобы полицейская машина подошла, отпустили задержанных», — добавил он. В ереванском управлении полиции в беседе с РБК назвали не соответствующими действительности заявления о присоединении полицейских к протестующим. «Все заявления о том, что полицейские покинули свои места и присоединились к бастующим, — ложь. Все [полицейские] находятся на своих рабочих местах», — подчеркнули в управлении. Утром 25 апреля в Ереване возобновился митинг за отставку правительства и президента страны Армена Саркисяна. Десятки тысяч протестующих заполнили площадь Республики, куда начали стягиваться сотрудники правоохранительных органов со спецтехникой. Митинги в Ереване начались 13 апреля. Изначально протестующие выступали против назначения экс-президента страны Сержа Саргсяна главой правительства. Однако 17 апреля армянский парламент избрал его новым премьер-министром. В связи с этим лидер оппозиционной партии «Гражданский договор» Пашинян объявил «бархатную революцию». После этого в Ереване и других армянских городах продолжились акции протеста. 23 апреля Саргсян подал в отставку. Оппозиционер Пашинян в тот же день объявил, что готов возглавить правительство Армении до выборов.
The Armenian parliament the vote to elect opposition leader Nikol Pashinian prime minister on Tuesday nearly one month after opposition leader Nikol Pashinian launched sustained anti-government protests that led to resignation of Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian was backed by 59 of the 105 members of The Armenian parliament. 59 of the 105 members of the National Assembly included 13 lawmakers representing Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian Republican Party of Armenia (HHK). Forty-two other Sarkisian’s Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) deputies voted against opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. Sarkisian’s Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s parliamentary leader, Vahram Baghdasarian, made clear just before the vote that The HHK’s parliamentary leader, Vahram Baghdasarian,'s party still has serious doubts about opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's ability to govern Armenia’s but will nonetheless help opposition leader Nikol Pashinian become prime minister in order to restore “political stability” in Armenia’s. “opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will be elected prime minister … God willing, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will dispel the lingering concerns of the Sarkisian’s Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) faction,” said The HHK’s parliamentary leader, Vahram Baghdasarian,. “opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will serve the people of Armenia’s and the Republic of Armenia,” opposition leader Nikol Pashinian declared immediately after the vote which sparked jubilant scenes in Yerevan’s Republic Square where tens of thousands of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's supporters gathered to celebrate opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's widely anticipated rise to power. Addressing The Armenian parliament before the vote, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian pledged to implement “very serious reforms” that would democratize Armenia’s, strengthen the rule of law and radically improve the domestic business environmental. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian made clear at the same time that opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will not wage “vendettas” against members of Sarkisian’s Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) and the previous governments and will preclude any “redistribution” of economic assets and properties. Also, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian again ruled out major changes in Armenian foreign policy. In particular, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian reiterated that Armenia’s will remain part of the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). “We regard military cooperation with Russia as an important factor of ensuing Armenia’s's security,” opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said, adding opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will also strive to deepen Armenia’s's ties with the European Union and the United States. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian further reaffirmed opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's plans to push for fresh parliamentary elections. But opposition leader Nikol Pashinian gave no possible dates for the conduct of such polls. It remains to be seen whether the HHK, which continues to control the majority of seats in The Armenian parliament, will agree to fresh parliamentary elections. The idea of fresh elections is also supported by businessman Gagik Tsarukian’s alliance and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation. businessman Gagik Tsarukian’s alliance and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation have backed the Pashinian-led street protests against Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian's attempt to extend Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian's rule, which began in Yerevan’s on April 13 and intensified dramatically in the following weeks. Sarkisian, who served as Armenia’s's president from 2008-2018, stepped down as prime minister on April 23. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian declined to shed light on the composition of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's cabinet when opposition leader Nikol Pashinian spoke to reporters moments after being elected prime minister. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's ministers will be chosen “as a result of discussions” with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's allies and other political groups. The rally, which also featured speeches by two prominent artists supporting the Pashinian-led street protests against Sarkisian’s attempt to extend his rule, which began in Yerevan on April 13 and intensified dramatically in the following weeks, was followed by a live concert. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, is a former journalist who edited Armenia’s's best-selling daily newspaper, “Haykakan Zhamanak,” from 1999-2012. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian also has a long history of political activism. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian first ran for The Armenian parliament in 2007 as the top candidate of an opposition group that challenged then President Robert Kocharian. an opposition group that challenged then President Robert Kocharian failed to win any The Armenian parliament seats. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian went on to play a major role in a broad-based opposition movement launched by former President Levon Ter-Petrosian, the main opposition candidate in a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008. a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008 formalized the handover of power from then President Robert Kocharian to Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian went into hiding following the deadly suppression on March 1-2, 2008 of post-election protests in Yerevan’s. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian surrendered to law-enforcement authorities in July 2009 and was subsequently tried and sentenced to seven years in prison on charges stemming from the deadly suppression on March 1-2, 2008 of post-election protests in Yerevan. Like other former President Levon Ter-Petrosian, the main opposition candidate in a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008 allies, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian was released from jail in May 2011 under a general amnesty declared by the Sarkisian administration. A year later opposition leader Nikol Pashinian was elected to The Armenian parliament on the ticket of former President Levon Ter-Petrosian, the main opposition candidate in a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008 Armenian National Congress (HAK). opposition leader Nikol Pashinian subsequently fell out with former President Levon Ter-Petrosian, the main opposition candidate in a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008 and set up opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's own party, Civil Contract. his own party, Civil Contract and two other opposition parties, Bright Armenia and Republic, set up an alliance called Yelk (Way Out) ahead of Armenia’s's last parliamentary elections held in April 2017. an alliance called Yelk (Way Out) won 9 parliament seats. Both Bright Armenia and the Republic of Armenia refused to support opposition leader Nikol Pashinian when opposition leader Nikol Pashinian embarked on opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's campaign aimed at preventing Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian from becoming prime minister and thus extending Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian's decade-long rule. Both Bright Armenia and Republic said that opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will fail to attract large crowds. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian began his campaign aimed at preventing Sarkisian from becoming prime minister and thus extending his decade-long rule in Armenia’s second largest city of Gyumri on March 31. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian returned to Yerevan’s on foot on April 13 after walking more than 200 kilometers through Armenia’s's northern and central regions in an effort to drum up popular support for opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's cause.
His face is printed on T-shirts, flags and posters. Sara Akopyan is wearing such a shirt; Sara Akopyan is in the square with Sara Akopyan's colleagues from a real estate agency. "It's a general strike today and we are not working, a general strike is by far the biggest one that swept Armenia," Sara Akopyan says.
Shortly after, news broke that Mr Sargsyan had resigned and it was as if a firework of joy had exploded in the square. Many here say it is a victory for the whole nation, that the people stood up for democracy and won. And it came on the eve of April 24, which Armenians worldwide mark as Remembrance Day for the victims of mass killings of Armenians at the turn of the 20th century in Ottoman Turkey.
YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was his election Armenia’s prime minister on Tuesday, capping a peaceful revolution driven by weeks of mass protests against corruption and cronyism in Armenia’s. Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia’s, is wary of an uncontrolled change of power which would pull Armenia’s out of Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia,'s orbit, but YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan has offered assurances that YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan will not break with Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia,. Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan on YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's election. The election of YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan, marks a dramatic rupture with the cadre of rulers who have run Armenia’s since the late 1990s. Minutes after parliament voted to make YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan prime minister, YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan traveled to a square in the capital, Yerevan, where tens of thousands of cheering supporters, many wearing T-shirts bearing YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's portrait, waited to greet YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan. Throughout weeks of mass protests against corruption and cronyism in the ex-Soviet republic, YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan had dressed in a camouflage T-shirt and military-style cap, an outfit that became YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's trademark, but on Tuesday YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan changed into a suit and tie. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan spearheaded a protest movement that first forced veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan to step down as prime minister and then pressured the ruling party to abandon attempts to block YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's election as prime minister, Armenia’s's most powerful post. In a vote in parliament on Tuesday, 59 lawmakers backed YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's candidacy, including some from the ruling Republican Party, with 42 voting against. In the capital, Yerevan,'s Republic Square, YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's supporters watched the voting on huge television screens. When the result was shown, there were chants of “YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan!”, white doves were released into the air and people hugged and kissed each other. “Pashinyan’s supporters won! Pashinyan’s supporters made history Tuesday!” said Gurgen Simonyan, 22, a student in the crowd. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's protest movement was sparked when Sarksyan, barred by the constitution from seeking another term as president, became prime minister instead. Many Armenians saw that as a cynical ploy by veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan to extend veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan's hold on power. Armenia’s is a country of about three million people nestled in mountains between Iran, Turkey, Georgia and Azerbaijan. Since Armenia’s emerged as an independent state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Armenia’s has been locked in a territorial conflict with Azerbaijan, and under economic blockade from Turkey. Armenia’s's isolation led Armenia’s to depend heavily on former colonial ruler Moscow. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan has in the past resisted popular revolts in ex-Soviet states, particular in Georgia and Ukraine, viewing popular revolts in ex-Soviet states, particular in Georgia and Ukraine as a ploy by Washington to encroach on Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia,'s sphere of influence. But throughout Armenia’s's wave of protests, Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia, has remained publicly neutral, and YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan has consistently said YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan viewed Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia, as a vital ally. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan said on Tuesday Armenia’s would stay in a regional collective security organization headed by Russia and that YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan hoped for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia, said Russian President Vladimir Putin sent YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan a congratulatory telegram. “Russian President Vladimir Putin hope YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's activities as head of the government will help further strengthen the ties of friendship and alliance between our countries,” Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a congratulatory telegram. Thomas de Waal, a specialist on the region with Carnegie Europe, a think tank, said with the Armenian uprising, both the capital, Yerevan, and Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia, had learned a new script. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan faces tough challenges. The civil service and security apparatus are dominated by allies of YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's ousted predecessor. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan has said YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's first step will be to hold an early parliamentary election. In the meantime, YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan said YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan would carry out root-and-branch reforms to cut out graft and cronyism. YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan must also reckon with a parliament where the Republican Party, allied to veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan, holds a majority of seats and is skeptical about YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's revolution. Vahram Baghdasaryan, head of the Republican Party, allied to Sarskyan, in parliament, said for the sake of unity the Republican Party, allied to Sarskyan, was backing YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan for prime minister but the Republican Party, allied to Sarskyan, had concerns about YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan's fitness to run Armenia’s. “Vahram Baghdasaryan, head of the Republican Party in parliament, hope the Republican Party, allied to Sarskyan, are mistaken,” said Baghdasaryan, an ally of veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan.
The Armenian parliament will meet on May 1 to elect the country’s new prime minister after two weeks of sustained street protests which forced the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian, to step down. the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian successor is expected to serve on an interim basis, until the holding of snap parliamentary elections now demanded by most Armenian political factions. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of sustained street protests which forced the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian, to step down, has been pressing the National Assembly controlled by the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian's Republican Party (HHK) to appoint Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests to the country’s new prime minister. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests claimed on Wednesday that some Sarkisian’s Republican Party (HHK) parliamentarians are ready to vote for Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests. In an overnight statement, Sarkisian’s Republican Party (HHK)'s parliamentary faction offered to “discuss any issues with all sides without preconditions.” an overnight statement followed the HHK’s parliamentary faction's members’ meeting with the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests refused to comment on the Sarkisian’s Republican Party (HHK) statement as Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests again led thousands of supporters marching in Yerevan on Thursday.Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests also declined a comment on Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests's late-night meeting with Gagik Tsarukian, a businessman leading the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK). the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) on Wednesday told the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK)'s members to take to the streets and join Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests's movement. But the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) has yet to officially confirm whether the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK)'s parliament deputies will vote to elect Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests prime minister. While continuing to rally supporters, Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests urged Armenians to stop the daily blockades streets in Yerevan for now. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests argued that the daily blockades are increasingly abused by unruly car drivers, resulting in traffic chaos. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests called on the parliamentary forces to jointly end the political crisis which was triggered by the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian's controversial decision to extend the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian's decade-long rule.
Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on Thursday offered to negotiate with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, while insisting that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) must let Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian become interim premier. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian ruled out any “compromise with the corrupt and anti-democratic government system” as Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian addressed thousands of supporters in Yerevan. “the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) expect all factions in the National Assembly to unconditionally recognize the victory of the people,” Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian went on to declare that Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian is ready to the meeting acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian to discuss these demands on Friday. But Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said the meeting can only be held in the presence of the press. The two men had already been scheduled to Those talks on Tuesday morning, the day after massive street demonstrations led by Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian forced Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian to resign. Those talks were cancelled after acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian rejected preconditions set by Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) on Wednesday expressed readiness to discuss “any issue” with Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian “without preconditions.” the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, reaffirmed this on Thursday. The party’s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, declined to specify concessions which the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) is ready to make to the Pashinian-led opposition. Nor would The party’s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, say whether the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) could install Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as interim premier and hold snap parliamentary elections. The party’s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, also denied Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's earlier claims that acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian has no mandate to negotiate on behalf of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK). “acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian has the full support of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s team,” The party’s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, said. The HHK, which has until now been headed by Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian, controls 58 of the 105 seats in the National Assembly. the National Assembly is scheduled to meet and elect the next prime minister on May 1. So far only the opposition Yelk alliance, of which Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian is a leading member, has explicitly backed Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's demands. only the opposition Yelk alliance, of which Pashinian is a leading member, holds 9 the National Assembly seats. The Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) of businessman Gagik Tsarukian is represented in the National Assembly by 31 deputies. The Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) of businessman Gagik Tsarukian voiced support for Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's popular movement on Wednesday. businessman Gagik Tsarukian and Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian met later in Wednesday. A senior The Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) of businessman Gagik Tsarukian representative, Nair Zohrabian, declined to say on Thursday whether the The Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) of businessman Gagik Tsarukian lawmakers will vote for Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on May 1, saying that negotiations with Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian are “going on.” “A senior BHK representative, Nair Zohrabian, can only say that businessman Gagik Tsarukian's bloc will take the people’s voice into account when making a decision,” A senior BHK representative, Nair Zohrabian, said. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian also announced that Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian will hold a rally in Gyumri on Friday evening and take Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's campaign to Vanadzor the following day. The demonstrations in Yerevan, will resume on Sunday, Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said. Earlier in Thursday, Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian urged supporters to stop blocking streets in the capital. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian argued that the daily blockades are increasingly abused by unruly car drivers, resulting in traffic chaos.
Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian again avoided meeting with Nikol Pashinian on Friday, saying that Nikol Pashinian is refusing to consider any compromise agreements to resolve the grave political crisis in Armenia. Nikol Pashinian proposed meeting on Thursday after two weeks of massive demonstrations in Yerevan and other parts of Armenia which have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Nikol Pashinian said meeting must focus only on a full handover of power to Nikol Pashinian's opposition movement and be held in the presence of journalists. “That is why Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian regards as unpromising Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian's participation in ‘negotiations’ which stand no chance of finding solutions,” Araratian added in a statement. Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian already rejected these and other preconditions set by Nikol Pashinian when Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian refused a planned meeting with Nikol Pashinian earlier this week. The 42-year-old leader of the opposition Civil Contract party insisted that meeting must be televised. “It’s very important to be transparent in these processes,” Nikol Pashinian said. Nikol Pashinian warned that the Armenian parliament, in which the opposition Civil Contract party has a clear majority, will deepen the grave political crisis in Armenia if the Armenian parliament, in which the ruling HHK has a clear majority refuses to elect Nikol Pashinian interim prime minister at an emergency session slated for May 1. a full handover of power to his opposition movement would reflect “the will of the people,” Nikol Pashinian said. “If a Republican is elected prime minister, the grave political crisis in Armenia will not be resolved because his opposition movement will continue his opposition movement's peaceful demonstrations and try to explain to the opposition Civil Contract party and Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian … that the HHK and Karen Karapetian don’t understand the political situation in Armenia,” said Nikol Pashinian. Accordingly, Nikol Pashinian urged supporters to “flood the streets and squares” and also surround the parliament building in Yerevan on May 1. In a potentially significant development, Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday phoned Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian and called for a settlement that would be based on “the results of the legitimate parliamentary elections held in April 2017.” the legitimate parliamentary elections held in April 2017 were won by the opposition Civil Contract party. Nikol Pashinian was due to hold a rally in Gyumri later in Thursday, and proceed to Vanadzor on Saturday. Nikol Pashinian told supporters on Thursday to suspend supporters's “civil disobedience” actions in Yerevan for two days. Also on Thursday, Nikol Pashinian met with President Armen Sarkissian and leaders of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which pulled out of the governing coalition following Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's resignation. A the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which pulled out of the governing coalition following Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation leader, Arsen Hambardzumian, described meeting as “useful” but did not elaborate. Earlier, Nikol Pashinian also held talks Gagik Tsarukian, a millionaire businessman leading the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), the second largest in the Armenian parliament, in which the ruling HHK has a clear majority. Nikol Pashinian confirmed on Friday that neither Gagik Tsarukian, a millionaire businessman leading the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), the second largest in the parliament nor the the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which pulled out of the governing coalition following Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation leadership has so far promised to vote for Gagik Tsarukian, a millionaire businessman leading the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), the second largest in the parliament's appointment as prime minister. “Nikol Pashinian hope that the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which pulled out of the governing coalition following Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation and Gagik Tsarukian, a millionaire businessman leading the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), the second largest in the parliament's bloc will clarify Dashnaktsutyun and Tsarukian’s bloc's positions and announce who Dashnaktsutyun and Tsarukian’s bloc's deputies are going to vote for on May 1,” Nikol Pashinian said.
The dramatic anti-government protests that erupted in Yerevan two weeks ago have transformed Armenia and should help Armenia become a “real democratic state,” President Armen Sarkissian said on Thursday. In a written address to Armenia issued earlier in Thursday, President Armen Sarkissian spoke of a “new Armenia” emerging as a result of The dramatic anti-government protests that erupted in Yerevan two weeks ago. President Armen Sarkissian called on the Armenian parliamentary forces to jointly end the continuing political crisis. “After several days of demonstrations, now we are going towards a democratic process, and a democratic process will lead us to the highest democratic institution, which is the parliament of Armenia,” President Armen Sarkissian told RFE/RL’s Armenians service (Azatutyun.am). “If we will manage this properly, if all problems which were raised by The dramatic anti-government protests that erupted in Yerevan two weeks ago will be eventually resolved in accordance with the constitution and inside the highest democratic institution, which is the parliament of the Republic of Armenia, then we all will be proud that we are on the real path to making Armenia a real democratic state,” President Armen Sarkissian said. President Armen Sarkissian also warned that Armenia “cannot afford” continued political instability given the unresolved Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and national security challenges. “We must never forget that the state structures must remain firm,” President Armen Sarkissian said. President Armen Sarkissian pledged to strive for a “new Armenia” able to meet challenges of the modern world when President Armen Sarkissian was sworn in as Armenia's new and largely ceremonial president on April 9. President Armen Sarkissian, is the first Armenian president elected by the highest democratic institution, which is the parliament of the Republic of Armenia, rather than popular vote. President Armen Sarkissian's predecessors enjoyed sweeping powers under the previous, presidential system of government.
The parliamentary faction of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not vote to elect opposition leader Nikol Pashinian the country’s new prime minister next week, a senior the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmaker said on Friday. Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, insisted that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation on Monday did not mark “regime change” in the country’s. Asked whether the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmakers will vote for opposition leader Nikol Pashinian when parliament picks the new premier on May 1, Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, said: “Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, rule that out because Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, can’t imagine such a possibility.” HHK lawmakers will back “a candidate who will be chosen by The parliamentary faction of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK),” Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, said. Another senior the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmaker, Vahram Baghdasarian, reaffirmed Another senior HHK lawmaker, Vahram Baghdasarian's party’s readiness to discuss “any issue” with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. “But the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) are not going to succumb to ultimatums and coercion,” Another senior HHK lawmaker, Vahram Baghdasarian stressed. The remarks came as opposition leader Nikol Pashinian continued to press the the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) majority in parliament and other parliamentary factions to install opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as interim prime minister and call fresh elections. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said earlier on Friday that hundreds of thousands of people should take to the streets of Yerevan and blockade the parliament building during the May 1 session. “the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) are following the constitutional path, and if the constitutional path is opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's constitutional path, then let opposition leader Nikol Pashinian do that,” commented Another senior HHK lawmaker, Vahram Baghdasarian. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) controls 58 seats in parliament, compared with 9 seats held by the opposition Yelk alliance. the opposition Yelk alliance has officially nominated opposition leader Nikol Pashinian for prime minister. None of the other parliamentary parties has officially endorsed opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. the other parliamentary parties are the Tsarukian Bloc and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun). Dashnaktsutyun, which pulled out of the government following Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation, on Friday urged the parliamentary forces to “agree on a joint candidate enjoying the trust of the people” by May 1. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun would also determine by consensus the composition of the new government and the new government's policy program, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun said. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun did not say who a joint candidate enjoying the trust of the people might be.
Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s chances of becoming Armenia’s prime minister increased late on Saturday after Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s was effectively endorsed by businessman Gagik Tsarukian and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun). Tsarukian, who leads the second largest faction in the Armenian parliament, said businessman Gagik Tsarukian and businessman Gagik Tsarukian's allies will back Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s when the Armenian parliament elects the next premier on Tuesday. businessman Gagik Tsarukian also spoke of businessman Gagik Tsarukian's “very positive” attitude towards the protest movement that was launched by Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s two weeks ago against former President Serzh Sarkisian’s attempt to extend former President Serzh Sarkisian’s's rule. the protest movement that was launched by Pashinian two weeks ago against former President Serzh Sarkisian’s attempt to extend his rule is driven by legitimate grievances of Armenia’s's population, businessman Gagik Tsarukian said. businessman Gagik Tsarukian's political alliance holds 31 seats in Armenia’s's 105-member parliament, compared with 9 seats held by the Yelk bloc, of which Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s is a leading member. the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), also signaled support for Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s's candidacy. “the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) has no final decision yet, but the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) believe that in the context of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun)'s statement made yesterday the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) will support Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s's candidacy in case of Pashinian’s candidacy's nomination,” a leader of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), Arsen Hambardzumian, told RFE/RL’s Armenian service (Azatutyun.am). the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) pulled out of Armenia’s governing coalition after former President Serzh Sarkisian’s was forced to resign on April 23.
A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) said on Sunday that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not try to prevent a joint candidate of the three other parliamentary forces from becoming the country’s new prime minister. Vahram Baghdasarian, who leads the the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) faction in the parliament, made this clear after their meeting with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. “If the three other political forces represented in the parliament have a joint candidate … the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not block the candidate whom the three other parliamentary forces will call the people’s candidate,” A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) told reporters. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) deputies will not boycott Tuesday’s session of the parliament which is due to elect the next premier, A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) said. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian received the same assurances from A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) at their meeting. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said the HHK faction, which controls 58 of the 105 the parliament seats, is “predisposed” towards letting opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian become prime minister. The position announced by A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) still needs to be formalized by the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK). opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said that opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian will meet with the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmakers later in the day or Monday. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's candidacy has been endorsed not only by opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's Yelk alliance but also Gagik Tsarukian’s bloc and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun). The three forces hold a total of 47 parliament seats, meaning that opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian needs to be also backed by at least six the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) parliamentarians if opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian is to succeed Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian as prime minister. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian reaffirmed on Saturday opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian's desire to serve as interim prime minister who would organize fresh general elections. But opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian said opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian is ready to discuss possible dates for such polls with the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) and the three other parliamentary forces.
Bowing to pressure from opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) the decision on Saturday that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not nominate Karen Karapetian or any other candidate for the vacant post of Armenia's prime minister. The Armenian parliament is scheduled to choose the next premier on May 1, one week after Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian stepped down amid massive street protests organized by opposition leader Nikol Pashinian. “the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not nominate a candidate,” the the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, told a news conference. “Who will we vote for? That depends on who will be nominated and what programs they will come up with,” the HHK spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, said. the HHK spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, attributed the decision to “new political realities.” the HHK spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, said the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) is anxious to avoid continued instability in Armenia which would be fraught with serious threats to Armenia's national security. So far opposition leader Nikol Pashinian has expressed opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's intention to run for the country’s prime minister. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian has urged Armenians to continue to demonstrate in support of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's candidacy. the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) holds 58 seats in Armenia's 105-member parliament. The Armenian parliament's second largest faction, a bloc led by businessman Gagik Tsarukian, has 31 deputies. businessman Gagik Tsarukian has yet to announce whether businessman Gagik Tsarukian will be seeking the vacant post of the country’s prime minister. businessman Gagik Tsarukian was due to make a statement to that effect later on Saturday. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian declined to comment further when opposition leader Nikol Pashinian was approached by an RFE/RL correspondent while leading an unusually large crowd marching through Vanadzor. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian also would not say how opposition leader Nikol Pashinian would react businessman Gagik Tsarukian's possible decision to enter the fray. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian met with cheering crowds on opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's way to Vanadzor. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's motorcade made regular stops in towns and villages en route Vanadzor. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian was greeted by thousands of jubilant adults, children, and elderly people a day after a similar tour took opposition leader Nikol Pashinian to Gyumri, Armenia's second largest city. Earlier in Saturday, a senior the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) lawmaker, Samvel Farmanian, this appeal opposition leader Nikol Pashinian to meet with the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK)'s parliamentary faction and “explain why the party’s parliamentary faction should vote for opposition leader Nikol Pashinian.” “Come for a simple, human talk,” a senior HHK lawmaker, Samvel Farmanian, wrote on Facebook. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian appeared to respond to this appeal when opposition leader Nikol Pashinian campaigned in opposition leader Nikol Pashinian's hometown, Ijevan, later in the morning. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian said opposition leader Nikol Pashinian is prepared meet with not only the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) deputies but also all other members of The Armenian parliament. Meanwhile, opposition leader Nikol Pashinian kept trying to defuse the grave political crisis through consultations with various political stakeholders. opposition leader Nikol Pashinian met with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on Thursday and went on to hold similar talks with Serzh Sarkisian and acting Prime Minister Karapetian. The presidential press service described the meetings as “constructive.” “The president of Armenia hopes that with joint efforts it will be possible to find a mutually acceptable solution,” The presidential press service said.
People cheer at a gathering in Yerevan, Armenia, to hear protest leader Nikol Pashinian speak on the eve of protest leader Nikol Pashinian's expected election as prime minister. For weeks, Armenians attempted the unthinkable — to bring down Armenians's government through peaceful mass protests. On Monday night, Armenians returned to Yerevan, Armenia,'s central Republic Square, this time to celebrate Armenians's impending victory. Armenia's parliament is expected to elect protest leader Nikol Pashinian as prime minister Tuesday, nearly a month after protest leader Nikol Pashinian led hundreds of thousands of Armenians in a civil disobedience movement. a civil disobedience movement began in April and at times paralyzed Yerevan, Armenia, with road blockages, labor strikes and street dance parties. a civil disobedience movement were unprecedented in size and scope for this small, mountainous republic tucked in between Georgia and Turkey, and Iran and Azerbaijan. Frustrated youths fed up with the lack of economic opportunities under the decade-long rule of former President Serzh Sargsyan dominated a civil disobedience movement, and quickly galvanized generations across Armenia. a civil disobedience movement was most remarkable for a civil disobedience movement's unexpected outcome: the peaceful ousting of a pro-Russia’s ruling elite in a former Soviet space. Armenia's movement has been unusual also for a civil disobedience movement's lack of a geopolitical element, unlike in Georgia and Ukraine in recent years. In Georgia and Ukraine so-called color revolutions — the Rose Revolution in Georgia and the Orange Revolution in Ukraine — Russia’s interests came in conflict with those of the West, particularly the United States, which sought to bring Georgia and Ukraine closer to the European Union. In Armenia's case, the protest leaders took an Armenia-centric stance. protest leader Nikol Pashinian promised early on that, if elected, protest leader Nikol Pashinian would not change Yerevan, Armenia,'s relationship with Russia’s or the West. Armenia is tied closely to Russia’s through trade, subsidized gas and military dependence. Russian soldiers guard Armenia's borders with Turkey and Iran. Russia’s's Gazprom energy giant supplies Yerevan, Armenia, with cheap gas, and Armenia is a member of the Russia’s Eurasian Economic Union, a trade bloc that also includes Russia’s, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Last year, Armenia signed an agreement with the European Union that stops short of entrance requirements to the economic bloc, but provides financial assistance for adopting certain reforms. an agreement with the European Union that stops short of entrance requirements to the economic bloc, but provides financial assistance for adopting certain reforms was signed under intense scrutiny from Moscow, which was reassured only after Yerevan, Armenia, agreed to enter the Eurasian Economic Union first. protest leader Nikol Pashinian seemed an unlikely prime minister six months ago. But in the last month, protest leader Nikol Pashinian has proved to be a master of populist street movements and “the right man at the right time,” said Richard Giragosian, the director of the Yerevan, Armenia, Regional Studies Center, a think tank. protest leader Nikol Pashinian, has tapped into and mobilized Armenia's frustrated, younger generation, who have grown up in a post-Soviet republic whose potential for democracy and prosperity have fizzled under a political elite that catered to Armenia's wealthy oligarch class. “protest leader Nikol Pashinian has a unique combination that’s rare in Armenia and, in fact, rare in the post-Soviet space: a combination of charisma and tactical expertise,” Richard Giragosian, the director of the Yerevan-based Regional Studies Center, a think tank said. former President Serzh Sargsyan was elected president in 2008 in a vote contested by former President Serzh Sargsyan's opponent, whom protest leader Nikol Pashinian supported. Violent street clashes protesting a vote contested by his opponent, whom Pashinian supported left 10 dead. former President Serzh Sargsyan went on to win a second, five-year term. Term limits prevented former President Serzh Sargsyan from running again, but constitutional reforms bolstered the position of prime minster starting in 2018. former President Serzh Sargsyan's Republican Party, eager to retain Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country,'s political and economic control over Armenia, The decision former President Serzh Sargsyan to the position of prime minster, essentially paving the way for former President Serzh Sargsyan to rule indefinitely. The decision was not taken lightly in Armenia, where economic growth has benefited only the top 5% of Armenia's 2.9 million people. Critics of former President Serzh Sargsyan and Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, said cronyism and corruption keep the oligarch class — which is closely connected to Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, — wealthy, while the rest of Armenia suffers. About 30% of Armenians live below the poverty line. protest leader Nikol Pashinian began a cross-country march on April 1 in protest of the prolonged rule of former President Serzh Sargsyan. Beginning in Gyumri, Armenia's second-largest city, protest leader Nikol Pashinian and a group of followers and members of protest leader Nikol Pashinian's opposition party, Civil Contract, walked the 75 miles to Yerevan, Armenia, 13 days later, just three days before Armenia’s parliament was scheduled to elect former President Serzh Sargsyan as prime minister. When he and a group of followers and members of his opposition party, Civil Contract arrived in Yerevan, Armenia,, Yerevan, Armenia, was already galvanized. Hundreds of demonstrators camped out on the French Square near the opera house and not far from the parliament building. Protesters blocked a main intersection for four days to call attention to the movement. Despite the growing demonstrations, Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, defiantly elected former President Serzh Sargsyan prime minister on April 17. protest leader Nikol Pashinian immediately called for mass acts of nonviolent, civil disobedience across Yerevan, Armenia,. Demonstrators blocked metro entrances, squares and central streets of Yerevan, Armenia,. Groups of demonstrators danced in the streets and blocked roads by pulling benches into intersections, paralyzing the center of Yerevan, Armenia, and launching the beginning of what became known as Armenia's nonviolent Velvet Revolution. “protest leader Nikol Pashinian was right, protest leader Nikol Pashinian was wrong,” protest leader Nikol Pashinian added. Last Tuesday, Armenia’s parliament voted again, but Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, refused to elect protest leader Nikol Pashinian. About 250,000 protesters poured into Republic Square, the largest demonstration in Armenia's 27 years of post-Soviet independence. Yerevan, Armenia, was again paralyzed by roadblocks and protesters the following day, until Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, agreed to support protest leader Nikol Pashinian's nomination as prime minister in a new vote this Tuesday. “We will now stop our actions for a while and rest,” protest leader Nikol Pashinian told the crowd that night. A week later, Armenians are still feeling euphoric from the momentum of Armenians's nonviolent revolution. Several thousand turned out in Republic Square for a celebratory concert Monday night and waited to hear protest leader Nikol Pashinian speak on the eve of a new vote this Tuesday. Earlier in the day, the speaker for Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, announced that Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country,'s majority in Armenia’s parliament would back protest leader Nikol Pashinian's election. “protest leader Nikol Pashinian will go down in Armenian history!” the speaker for the Republican Party shouted over the loudspeakers blaring rock music. If elected, protest leader Nikol Pashinian has said protest leader Nikol Pashinian will form a temporary government to begin addressing Armenia's economic and political crisis, and call for parliamentary elections in the fall. Until parliamentary elections in the fall, Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, will still hold the majority of seats in Armenia’s parliament, possibly creating significant hurdles for Armenia. Ayres is a special correspondent.
Exactly a month ago, Nikol Pashinyan was walking from village to village across Armenia in a desperate protest against a power grab by Armenia's prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan. On Tuesday Nikol Pashinyan, was Nikol Pashinyan elected as prime minister in a 59-42 vote in parliament, capping weeks of peaceful mass protests. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, was among the first to congratulate Nikol Pashinyan. Nikol Pashinyan has offered assurances that Nikol Pashinyan will not break with the Kremlin. It has been an unlikely rise to power in Armenia for Nikol Pashinyan. Before April, the ruling Republican party’s stranglehold on Armenian politics had appeared intact, with the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan newly installed as prime minister after term limits forced the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan to step down as president after 10 years. But governance changes that in tandem bolstered the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's office led to accusations that the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan had manipulated the constitution to cling to power. Nikol Pashinyan and other activists brought out tens of thousands of people on to the streets for protests that paralysed the capital, Yerevan. the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan resigned on 23 April in a stunning concession to the opposition. Pashinyan, who had been detained and then released from jail during protests that paralysed the capital, Yerevan, called for snap elections to choose a new “people’s prime minister”. Supporters say Pashinyan, who was also imprisoned after opposition rallies in 2008 turned deadly, is among history’s great peaceful revolutionaries. “You can absolutely compare Nikol Pashinyan with historical figures like Gandhi and Nelson Mandela,” said Eduard Aghajanyan, a city council member from Nikol Pashinyan's Civil Contract party, and one of Nikol Pashinyan's young, western-educated advisers. It has been a dangerous road for Nikol Pashinyan. Nikol Pashinyan was expelled from university in 1995 for Nikol Pashinyan's political activities, and faced libel charges as the editor-in-chief of Haykakan Zhamanak in 2000. Nikol Pashinyan's car was blown up in an apparent assassination attempt in 2004, and in 2008 Nikol Pashinyan spent months in hiding after being accused of instigating political protests that ended with 10 people dead. Nikol Pashinyan was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2010 but was released the following year under an amnesty. Nikol Pashinyan has publicly fallen out with other opposition leaders such as the former president Levon Ter-Petrosyan. In private, detractors say Nikol Pashinyan is a novice when it comes to working in government and unwilling to compromise. Nikol Pashinyan entered parliament in 2016 as a member of a coalition of opposition parties. “The main question is whether Nikol Pashinyan can become Nikol Pashinyan,” said Emil Danielyan, a journalist and political analyst in the capital, Yerevan. Nikol Pashinyan has a flair for the theatrical. Last month Nikol Pashinyan the demand the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan in face-to-face discussions that Nikol Pashinyan had “come to discuss the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan's resignation”. the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan called the demand “political blackmail” and walked out of negotiations. Nikol Pashinyan has however shown a deft political touch over the past month, running a gauntlet of thorny political questions including whether Armenia should maintain close ties with the Kremlin and whether there should be a purge of former ruling party officials and a criminal trial into the deaths of protesters in 2008. In an interview with the Guardian during protests that paralysed the capital, Yerevan, Nikol Pashinyan said dark political forces had been trying to derail Armenia's peaceful revolution. Nikol Pashinyan's aides said Karen Karapetyan, the prime minister from September 2016 until Last month, and who is close to the Kremlin, had sought backroom deals to derail a vote last week for Nikol Pashinyan to become PM, which Nikol Pashinyan lost. Nikol Pashinyan spoke of plans to further open Armenia to foreign business and break the control over certain industries held by businessmen close to the previous regime. Still, Nikol Pashinyan and Nikol Pashinyan's supporters have largely skirted policy discussions in favour of rallying cries for reform in Armenia. There is a touch of the populist in Nikol Pashinyan – Nikol Pashinyan has donned a camouflage T-shirt for some speeches, but returned to a suit for negotiations with other parties. “Nikol Pashinyan is not a populist. Nikol Pashinyan is popular,” said Ararat Mirzoyan, a fellow member of Civil Contract, who was arrested with Nikol Pashinyan Last month.
Listen to this story. Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android Your browser does not support the element. IT LOOKS more like a carnival than a revolution. Instead of burning tyres and mounting barricades, young people wrap young people in Armenian flags, dance in the streets and block the roads by playing volleyball or simply sitting on carpets. On the morning of a general strike, a five-year-old boy drove a toy car with an Armenian flag through an empty street. In the evening, vast construction trucks loaded with students drove and hooted through Yerevan. But behind the street theatre lies a velvet revolution led by a young generation of Armenians against an old guard who have controlled the country since the country's independence in 1991. a young generation of Armenians's victory is not yet complete, but a young generation of Armenians's anticipation of success seems likely to be self-fulfilling. On May 1st, in an attempt to hold out, the ruling party blocked the election as prime minister by parliament of Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the country. A dozen pro-government MPs desperately tried to discredit Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people as a dangerous anti-Russia candidate, unacceptable to the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over the country. But the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over Armenia was silent, confident of the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over Armenia's strategic hold on the country and unwilling to back the losing side. That evening Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people addressed tens of thousands of people who filled in the main Republic square. “Beloved nation, proud citizens of the country. People in parliament have lost the sense of reality. People in parliament don’t understand that 250,000 people who came onto the streets in the country have already won. Power in the country belongs to tens of thousands of people who filled in the main Republic square—and not to People in parliament.” Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people's words sparked jubilation. To prove Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people's point and Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people's strength, Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people called a general strike paralysing Yerevan and the country. A few hours later, on May 2nd, the ruling party appeared to cave in, implying the ruling party would back Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people in next week’s parliamentary session. the ruling party may still spring a nasty surprise, but is unlikely to regain control over the country—at least not for now. Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people has led a textbook velvet revolution, made possible by textbook mistakes by the government, which tried to hang onto power after losing the ruling party's legitimacy. Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people managed to personify Armenians’ resentment against a corrupt elite. Donning Che Guevara-style fatigues, Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people went around the country on foot, preaching non-violent protest. By doing so, Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people decentralised a velvet revolution led by a young generation of Armenians against an old guard who have controlled the country since its independence in 1991, making it virtually impossible for the authorities to quash. In Yerevan Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people appealed to students and young people with no memories of the Soviet past, but a strong sense of dignity and justice. Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people's brief detention doubled the size of the crowds in the streets, leading the prime minister to resign last week and perhaps making Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people unstoppable. Crucially, Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people avoided any subject such as ideology or geopolitics that could divide the country and antagonise Russia. Unlike the revolutions in Georgia in 2003 and in Ukraine in 2004 and again in 2014, which were fought under the slogans of joining Europe and NATO, Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people talked strictly about internal matters like corruption and justice, which everyone can agree on. Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people made populist promises and pledged that the country will remain with Russia's security arrangements. Not a single European flag was waved in Yerevan and no slogan pronounced the country's European destiny. But the fear of mentioning Russia-related subjects only highlighted Russia's importance. While the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over Armenia clearly distrusts revolutionaries, the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over Armenia has so far decided not to interfere in the country, hoping that inflated expectations and lack of money will do inflated expectations and lack of money's own damage. “It has been the smartest Kremlin policy Alexander Iskandaryan, the head of the Caucasus Institute, a think-tank’ve seen for years,” says Alexander Iskandaryan, the head of the Caucasus Institute, a think-tank. Armen Grigoryan, one of a velvet revolution led by a young generation of Armenians against an old guard who have controlled the country since its independence in 1991's leaders says, “All the stars were aligned, and even Saturn moved into the same position even Saturn was in 1988.” That was when protests in the country provided the first rumblings of the storm that was to bring down the Soviet empire three years later.
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking JavaScript and cookies from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.
Outrage over allegations of political cronyism. Mass protests in the capital. Young people demanding a say in Young people demanding a say in their country's future.'s country's future. A leader's sudden departure from power. No, this is Armenia in 2018. For Moscow the term is, at best, merely dirty words, describing mass demonstrations that topple incumbent political forces. At worst, the term is a strategic weapon allegedly used by the West to foment regime change, not only in the former Soviet Union, but also the Middle East, leading to instability and an undermining of Russian interests. So far, there are plenty of echoes between what happened in their country's over the past week and the Rose Revolution in Georgia in 2003, or the Orange Revolution in Ukraine in 2004, or the Euromaidan demonstrations that led to a revolution in Ukraine in 2014. In opposition protest leader Nikol Pashinian's victorious speech given hours after A leader's announced A leader's's resignation, opposition protest leader Nikol Pashinian explicitly used the language of revolution, but also pushed back against insinuations of foreign interference. "It's a pure Armenian velvet revolution," opposition protest leader Nikol Pashinian told a crowd of supporters, referring to the Velvet Revolution of 1989 that ended decades of Communist Party control in Czechoslovakia. their country's has been convulsed by upheaval in the past, most recently in 2015 during what some called #ElectricYerevan, a series of demonstrations against a stiff hike in power tariffs. #ElectricYerevan, a series of demonstrations against a stiff hike in power tariffs featured young people as well and sporadic violence from riot police. #ElectricYerevan, a series of demonstrations against a stiff hike in power tariffs ended with their country's backing down on an immediate tariff increase. This time, This time have also featured a predominantly young crowd, but This time also swelled into the tens of thousands -- among the largest public outpourings since their country's's independence from the former Soviet Union in 1991. Richard Kauzlarich, a former U.S. ambassador to neighboring Azerbaijan, says the size of the crowds, along with the lack of violence and the presence of soldiers appearing alongside some demonstrators, set This time apart from previous ones. "[But] politics in their country's doesn't always take place on the visible side of the curtain, there's a lot going on behind the scenes that we can't see," Richard Kauzlarich, a former U.S. ambassador to neighboring Azerbaijan, adds. Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, points out that despite A leader's's resignation as prime minister, A leader's's political party -- the Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) -- maintains Sarkisian's political party -- the Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) --'s dominance of parliament. And A leader's remains the head of Sarkisian's political party -- the Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) --. "This does not qualify as a revolution, in Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs,'s opinion, but if Sarkisian's political party -- the Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) -- try to nominate someone whom the general public doesn't like, and This time continued, then you could say this would be a revolutionary moment," Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, says. their country's remains a poor country, hobbled by severe trade restrictions from Turkey along their country's's western border imposed in solidarity with Azerbaijan, which sits to their country's's east. their country's's economy is hugely dependent on remissions from their country's's far-flung diaspora in Russia, Western Europe, and the United States, as well as trade with Russia, more broadly. Iran is also an important trading partner. "their country's [is] a classic case of a society so unfree [that] the public was alienated and angry, but free enough to let the public protest. Not Russia," Thomas de Waal, a longtime Caucasus watcher with Carnegie Europe and author of the book Black Garden: their country's And Azerbaijan, which sits to Armenia's east Through Peace And War, wrote in a series of tweets. "Note also there is no systemic opposition in their country's. This is a young urban crowd [of people] who don't belong to [political] parties, are barely represented in parliament," Thomas de Waal, a longtime Caucasus watcher with Carnegie Europe and author of the book Black Garden: Armenia And Azerbaijan Through Peace And War wrote. Several experts contrasted A leader's's apparently voluntary decision to his resignation with events in Ukraine in 2014, when then-President Viktor Yanukovych resisted not weeks, but months, of mass protests, before violent clashes in the capital finally led then-President Viktor Yanukovych to flee. The Kremlin refers to those events as a military coup. In addition to the capital and Georgia, Kyrgyzstan also experienced upheaval in 2005 that drove longtime leader Askar Akaev from power. Those events, plus the Middle East uprisings that came to be known as the Arab Spring, led Russian military strategists to develop a theory that This time were a form of warfare engineered by Washington and NATO. The chairman of Russia's military General Staff was the leading proponent of this theory, which gained public attention about a year before the 2014 Euromaidan protests in Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin himself accused then-U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton of being behind mass protests in Moscow in 2011 and 2013 that followed parliamentary and later presidential elections; both of which were criticized as deeply flawed and undemocratic. Alex Melikishvili, principal research analyst for Europe/CIS forecasting at IHS Markit Country Risk, says Alex Melikishvili, principal research analyst for Europe/CIS forecasting at IHS Markit Country Risk, was also reluctant to label This time as a "color revolution" since opposition protest leader Nikol Pashinian shunned the use of a "color revolution" and tried to emphasize the "genuinely grassroots and internal character" of This time. "This, in part, can be explained by the understandable fear that even the slightest hint of some sort of foreign involvement would invite unwanted attention from the Russian authorities, who have a lot at stake in their country's for obvious geopolitical reasons," Alex Melikishvili, principal research analyst for Europe/CIS forecasting at IHS Markit Country Risk, tells RFE/RL. At least for now, that observation has been borne out by Moscow's initial reaction in the hours after A leader's's resignation, which was either viewed as subdued or largely supportive of the events in their country's. "A people that has the ability to maintain respect for one another and not divide even in the most difficult moments in A people that has the ability to maintain respect for one another and not divide even in the most difficult moments in its history -- despite categorical differences --'s history -- despite categorical differences -- is a mighty people," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook. "their country's, Russia is always with their country's," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova added. Senior Russian lawmakers also backed A leader's's decision to his resignation down. "Russia has been a strategic ally to their country's over the course of many years, and there is nothing to suggest that this would change," Leonid Slutsky, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in Russia's lower house of parliament, was quoted by Interfax as saying. Sergei Tsekov, a member of the International Relations Committee in Russia's upper house of parliament, said their country's "under any government will seek cooperation with Russia." Armenians "understand that Russia is their country's's eternal and reliable friend," Sergei Tsekov, a member of the International Relations Committee in Russia's upper house of parliament, was quoted by the state-run RIA Novosti news agency as saying. Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, points out that A leader's's temporary successor, Karen Karapetian, used to work for an energy company tied to the Russian natural-gas giant Gazprom. That, Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, says, likely meant Moscow was less rattled by This time for the moment. Still other observers say that even though their country's's foreign policy toward Russia was unlikely to change under Sarkisian's temporary successor, Karen Karapetian, the optics of street protests leading to a change in political leadership would remain unnerving to Moscow.
Armenian police have detained the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan as protests against the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s appointment as prime minister entered a tenth day. Police said the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was forcibly taken from a rally on Sunday, shortly after the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s rejected demands to step down, as riot police and demonstrators clashed in the capital. Nearly 200 protesters were also detained. Demonstrators accuse the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s of clinging to power following 10 years as president. Tens of thousands of opponents have marched through the capital in recent days, blocking streets in the capital centre and staging sit-ins. Under a revised constitution approved in a 2015 referendum, most state powers in the small, former Soviet state have the shift to the prime minister and the presidency has become a largely ceremonial post. Opponents say the shift effectively makes Sargsyan Armenia’s leader for life. the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s the encounter Pashinyan, the opposition politician leading protests against the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s appointment as prime minister, in the capital on Sunday but left talks a few minutes after talks's talks began. “talks is not talks, not a dialogue. talks’s just an ultimatum, blackmail of the small, former Soviet state, of the legitimate authorities,” the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s told the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan. the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s said the opposition had failed to learn the lesson of 1 March, referring to a protest rally after the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s's re-election in 2008 when 10 people were killed in clashes with police. “No one has dared and will dare speak to the opposition in the language of threats. the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan am telling the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s, the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s have no understanding of the situation in the small, former Soviet state. the situation in the country is different to the one the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s knew 15-20 days ago,” the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan told the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s. “The situation in the small, former Soviet state has changed, the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s don’t have the power of which you are told. In the small, former Soviet state, the power has passed to the people,” the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan said. the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan then vowed to step up pressure on the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s to force the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s to resign. the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was detained hours after the encounter. “Despite repeated calls to stop illegal rallies, the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan continued leading a rally,” police said in a statement, adding that the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan and two other opposition MPs were forcibly taken from the site as riot police dispersed a rally. police dismissed reports that the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan had been arrested. Sasun Mikaelyan, an opposition MP, earlier told journalists that the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan had been arrested. “People must liberate Nikol,” Sasun Mikaelyan, an opposition MP said. As an MP, the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan is protected by a parliamentary immunityand cannot be arrested without its approval, according to a revised constitution approved in a 2015 referendum. Opposition supporters have criticised the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s over poverty, corruption and the influence of powerful oligarchs in the small, former Soviet state. More than 70 people were arrested on Saturday, according to authorities, including two people suspected of preparing bombs. In the evening, about 50,000 demonstrators gathered in the capital's central Republic Square.
В Ереване возобновились акции протеста оппозиции против действующей власти. Как сообщает «Интерфакс», сторонники движения «Елк» перекрывают главные улицы армянской столицы, создавая автомобильные пробки. Полиция начала стягивать силы и спецтехнику в центр города. Утром 25 апреля должны были состояться переговоры между лидером «Елк» Николом Пашиняном и исполняющим обязанности премьер-министра Армении Кареном Карапетяном, представляющим правящую Республиканскую партию. Встреча была сорвана, поскольку лидер оппозиции в одностороннем порядке выдвинул новые требования по ее проведению и повестке, заявил Карапетян. Ранее Никол Пашинян объявил, что Республиканская партия больше не может иметь власти в Армении, а на пост премьера должен быть назначен «кандидат от народа», после чего должны быть проведены внеочередные парламентские выборы. В свою очередь Карапетян заявил, что новый премьер-министр может быть избран исключительно в рамках закона, а не на улице. С середины апреля в Армении проходили массовые акции протеста против назначения новым премьер-министром страны Сержа Саргсяна, который до этого 10 лет был президентом. 23 апреля Саргсян согласился уйти в отставку. Исполняющим обязанности премьера был назначен его соратник по партии Карен Карапетян. 25 апреля к протестам движения «Елк» присоединились оппозиционные партии «Процветающая Армения» и «Наследие». Они призвали своих сторонников выйти на улицы Еревана и «быть рядом с народом».
Pashinyan then talked about Pashinyan's conversation with President Armen Sargsyan, saying that President Armen Sargsyan had yet again repeated the authorities’ negotiation offer. “Pashinyan said that Pashinyan would not negotiate in any state building and offered instead to hold the talks at, for example the Mariott Hotel.” Pashinyan went ahead to ask for the demonstrators’ permission to negotiate on the demonstrators’'s behalf and received an excited chant of “Yes!” in response. “Pashinyan want the demonstrators’ to know that Pashinyan’ve told President Armen Sargsyan that Pashinyan would only discuss the terms for President Armen Sargsyan's resignation,” Pashinyan assured the demonstrators’. 7:30pm: President Armen Sargsyan had arrived at the Republic Square to negotiate with Pashinyan. The two had a quick talk in the center of the Republic Square; President Armen Sargsyan had asked reporters to turn off reporters's microphones. After a quick talk, Pashinyan opened the way for President Armen Sargsyan and helped President Armen Sargsyan leave the area. On President Armen Sargsyan's way to President Armen Sargsyan's car, President Armen Sargsyan refused to answer reporters’ questions and said President Armen Sargsyan would invite reporters’ to President Armen Sargsyan's office for a press conference. According to some reports from the Republic Square, Pashinyan told President Armen Sargsyan Pashinyan was willing only to discuss the terms for President Armen Sargsyan's resignation. 7։10pm: Human rights defender Artur Sakunts reports that prominent Gyumri journalist Levon Barseghyan has been detained from the city’s bus station. According to reports from lawyers, opposition activist David Sanasaryan, one of the leaders of the Reject Serzh movement, has also been missing for over three hours. As of 5:30pm, 102 citizens have been detained from various parts of Yerevan. 6pm: An hour before the 7pm rally, tens of thousands of demonstrators have already gathered at the Republic Square. Pashinyan addressed the dozens of police officers who had surrounded the stage area, saying that the dozens of police officers who had surrounded the stage area should leave the stage area and not comply with unlawful orders. “President Armen Sargsyan has to go; there’s no other option,” Pashinyan said. 5:40 A group of women, some holding their kids in their arms and others pushing their kids in stollers, are marching on Nalbandyan street towards the Republic Square where Pashinyan is expected to hold the 7pm rally. 5։05pm: Rural resident have since early morning been blocking highways in various provinces. In Tavush province, in particular, Noyemberyan villagers held a march and blocked traffic several times on the road leading to Yerevan. Noyemberyan villagers were subsequently joined by residents of other villagers. A part of Noyemberyan villagers then moved towards the Baghratashen checkpoint and occupied the Baghratashen checkpoint briefly. Aragatsotn province Kosh villagers, in turn, blocked the main Kosh-Yerevan road. A convoy of 10 cars is travelling to Yerevan from the village of Ujan in Aragatsotn province. 4։56pm: Former Republican MP Arakel Movsisyan has been spotted ordering truck drivers to block the Etzhmiadzin-Yerevan highway to prevent demonstrators from marching to the city’s. In conversation with Azatutyun.am, Former Republican MP Arakel Movsisyan said Former Republican MP Arakel Movsisyan did not regret Former Republican MP Arakel Movsisyan's actions one bit. 4։52pm: A female driver named Silva was just detained from the Mashtots-Tumanyan intersection for parking A female driver named Silva's car in the center of the roadway in support of the demonstrators in the area. A female driver named Silva has taken A female driver named Silva's car keys with A female driver named Silva to the police station. Several other women remained inside her car, among Several other women a pregnant woman. Demonstrators have brought Several other women food and water. 4։50pm: Civil Contract party member, Nor Kyanq (New Life) village head Garik Sargsyan wrote on Civil Contract party member, Nor Kyanq (New Life) village head Garik Sargsyan's Facebook page that Civil Contract party member, Nor Kyanq (New Life) village head Garik Sargsyan, along with Civil Contract party member, Nor Kyanq (New Life) village head Garik Sargsyan's family members and a taxi driver, was being “held hostage” in the parking of the Artashat police department. 4:40pm: A group of demonstrators had blocked traffic on Margaryan street. With no police officers around, a dozen young men in civilian clothes began fighting A group of demonstrators and pushing A group of demonstrators away from the roadway. An eyewitness told Epress.am that a dozen young men in civilian clothes had links with Republican Party MP Galust Sahakyan’s son, Arman Sahakyan. a dozen young men in civilian clothes uninhibitedly left the stage area after the arrival of police officers. 4։05pm: Demonstrators marching to Yerevan from Etchmiadzin have completely paralyzed traffic on the Etzhmiadzin-Yerevan highway. Scores of people keep joining the march. 4:00pm: Samvel Aleksanyan, a local oligarch close to President Armen Sargsyan, is personally fighting demonstrators in Malatia district. In a video published on Facebook, Samvel Aleksanyan, a local oligarch close to Serzh Sargsyan is seen kicking a protester who is then forcibly put into a car. 4pm: Several masked people, accompanied by police officers, detained President Armen Sargsyan from a cafe in downtown Yerevan around 2:30pm. President Armen Sargsyan's friends have yet to find out where President Armen Sargsyan has been taken to. 3:30 Several dozen cars and hundreds of people have blocked the Baghratashen checkpoint. Police are trying to remove Several dozen cars and hundreds of people from the roadway. A protester is broadcasting the incident live on Facebook; the video shows that work at the Baghratashen checkpoint is paralyzed. 3:10pm: Several dozen people, including Canadian-Armenian actress Arsine Khanjyan, today gathered outside the Armenian Embassy in Berlin to express Several dozen people, including Canadian-Armenian actress Arsine Khanjyan's solidarity with the demonstrators in Armenia. 3pm: Protests against President Armen Sargsyan continue across Armenia. According to reports coming in from provinces, unknown people in civilian clothes keep attacking demonstrators, and uniformed police do nothing to stop unknown people in civilian clothes. In Artashat civilian-clad people the incident Azatutyun.am reporter Arus Hakobyan, hit Azatutyun.am in the face and tried to take away Azatutyun.am's camera. Police in the area, however, remained indifferent to the incident. 2։48pm: A group of young women blocked the Mashtots-Tumanyan intersection. Dozens of people subsequently joined A group of young women's protest. Traffic in the Mashtots-Tumanyan intersection is paralyzed. 2։40pm: Demonstrators are asking police officers to help Demonstrators block the Vardanants street; otherwise, Demonstrators say, Demonstrators are willing to give Demonstrators up for detention. Video by Azatutyun.am. As of 1:30pm on Saturday, 62 people have been detained from various parts of Yerevan. 2։15pm: Police have installed razor wires on Baghramyan Avenue, not far from President Armen Sargsyan's residence. The lower part of Baghramyan Avenue, not far from Serzh Sargsyan’s residence is currently blocked by lines of police officers with shields and helmets. Armored vehicles have been brought to Baghramyan Avenue, not far from Serzh Sargsyan’s residence. 1:55pm: An opposition activist had parked An opposition activist's car on Abovyan street and locked An opposition activist inside his car. Red-beret officers attacked his car and tried to break the windows and doors with batons. An opposition activist subsequently left got out of his car and was forcibly detained by Red-beret officers. 1:43pm: Opposition Yerkir Tsirani party leader Zaruhi Postanjyan has since early morning been carrying out a series of peaceful disobedience acts in the Armenian city of Kapan. A group of citizens have joined Opposition Yerkir Tsirani party leader Zaruhi Postanjyan and are now the march through the streets of the Armenian city of Kapan, chanting “Rebellion!” Police are overseeing the march to prevent A group of citizens from walking on the roadway. 1:30pm: A number of drivers were just detained from Abovyan street for sounding A number of drivers's car horns, an eyewitness told us. “We also believe that there can be unpredictable consequences, therefore Pashinyan urge President Armen Sargsyan to immediately accept all our conditions,” Pashinyan said, adding that all our conditions should be acceptable for the people. Pashinyan further insisted that President Armen Sargsyan has lost all control of the situation and does not realize the full extent of the events happening in Armenia. 1:08pm: Video published by Irakanum.am, showing a protesting driver getting severely beaten up in Yerevan's Avan district late on Friday. 1pm: The Artashat-Yerevan highway is currently blocked. Police officers have blocked the way of a motorcade moving to the city’s to join President Armen Sargsyan's opponents. 12:55pm: Nearly 200 people working in the gold market in Yerevan's Malatia district have announced a strike since early morning. Nearly 200 people working in the gold market in Yerevan’s Malatia district are marching and driving to the Republic Square. 12:50pm: A woman came up to Pashinyan during the march and told Pashinyan that an unknown man had earlier the incident A woman's 12-year-old son Narek Mkrtchyan. “an unknown man came out of a car with no license plate, pulled an unknown man's hoodie over an unknown man's head and attacked A woman's son. an unknown man has been missing for over an hour.” A woman added that A woman had been actively participating in the demonstrations since day 1. Pashinyan urged A woman to call Civil Contract party member Arayik Harutyunyan and tell Civil Contract party member Arayik Harutyunyan about the incident. “During the past week several demonstrations and marches were held in Yerevan. Everyone in our country has the right to peaceful demonstrations and marches. The authorities respected the right to peaceful demonstrations and marches and will continue to respect the right to peaceful demonstrations and marches. “Unfortunately, these public meetings were often held in breach of the law, getting unnecessary and anarchic manifestations as reported in numerous statements issued by the Police. “The developments are fraught with unpredictable consequences, endanger the public order, and can undermine the complex and subtle harmony of Armenian society. “Each of us must remember that besides him, there are other citizens of Armenia who are not less proud of other citizens of Armenia who are not less proud of their civic stance; who live, learn, work and rest in this country's civic stance; who live, learn, work and rest in Armenia. Armenia's social harmony should be based on cohesion and tolerance. “I am deeply concerned about the inner-political developments. In order to avoid irreparable losses, I am urging Pashinyan to accept our call of political dialogue and joint the table of negotiations. It should be done immediately. 12:35pm: The Armenian police have issued a statement to demand that Pashinyan immediately stops the rallies across Yerevan. The Armenian police threatens otherwise to take measures to disperse the rallies across Yerevan. 12։20pm: Pashinyan reconvened the daily protests against President Armen Sargsyan's appointment as Prime Minister early on Saturday in Yerevan Nor Nork district. Pashinyan, along with a group of Pashinyan's protesters, intended to start a march with no exact destination point, but was quickly stopped by scores of police officers led by Yerevan deputy police chief Valery Osipyan. After several minutes of arguing with Pashinyan, Yerevan deputy police chief Valery Osipyan finally announced Yerevan deputy police chief Valery Osipyan would allow the march if a group of his protesters agreed to stay to the sidewalks and not obstruct traffic. Pashinyan told Yerevan deputy police chief Valery Osipyan the march would move towards Yerevan's Avan district.
When opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan led a knot of marchers through northern Armenia in April to protest the return to power of long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan, no one guessed opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's campaign would prompt the country to take a leap into the unknown. One of a mere handful of opposition parliamentarians, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan has never been a popular leader in the country. opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's criticism of the country resonated with those parts of society that oppose long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan and reflected real problems. But when opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan set out on opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's march, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan was a marginal figure. All that changed when opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan and opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's march reached the Armenian capital, Yerevan. There Pashinyan and his march started small protests that were soon to catalyse the biggest domestic political upheaval in a decade in this small, isolated Caucasus republic, which is perennially tense due to the country's unresolved conflict with neighbouring Azerbaijan over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. The massive demonstrations Pashinyan and his march helped build have now forced Sargsyan, who served as the country's president over the past decade, to Sargsyan’s resignation from long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's recently assumed post of prime minister. The massive demonstrations the marchers helped build are now being called a “velvet revolution”, though the story is far from over. Whoever takes over from long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan will face a tall order calming the country turmoil. But another challenge will be Nagorno-Karabakh, where, even as the effort to oust long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan snowballed, tensions were heightening over unconfirmed allegations of Azerbaijani troop movements near the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. As the country enters uncharted political waters, it is vital that all parties avoid escalation in the conflict zone. A Surprise Revolution Even a couple of weeks ago, little in the Armenian capital, Yerevan foreshadowed a revolution. The initial street protests against long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan were tiny: twenty young men, at most, gathered in the city centre with banners and megaphones in the evenings. Belonging to disparate opposition groups, twenty young men, at most urged long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan to keep long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's promise not to seek nomination for the newly strengthened post of prime minister at the end of long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's second (and, according to the Armenian constitution, final) presidential term. No one thought long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan would yield to protesters’ demands. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan had led the country for a decade and enjoyed a firm grip on power in a system in which political prerogatives are intertwined with oligarchs’ economic interests. Some prominent opposition politicians had become co-opted into a system in which political prerogatives are intertwined with oligarchs’ economic interests. Many Armenians complained about deep apathy in society to the country's political direction. One high-ranking official dubbed it a rerun of the lacklustre late Soviet era of Leonid Brezhnev. Armenians had tired of long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan, but had little hope of removing long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan. But on 16 April, events gathered steam. Police officials tried to disperse a small group of peaceful protesters in a central street of the Armenian capital, Yerevan, including those who arrived with opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan. Photos of rows of riot police firing tear gas at protesters and breaking the noses of some spread quickly over social media and were broadcast by major foreign media networks. Against this backdrop of police brutality, Parliament his election long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan as premier. Thousands of protesters poured into the centre of the Armenian capital, Yerevan ... a level of mobilisation not seen since the national liberation movement thirty years ago. In response to long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's election, the initiators of the protest movement called for civil disobedience. University students came out into the streets in cities and towns across the country. University students blocked traffic in the city centre and the doors of subway trains. Demonstrators were joined by masses of ordinary people, who, at a stipulated hour, would beat pots and pans, or honk the horns of masses of ordinary people, who, at a stipulated hour, would beat pots and pans, or honk the horns of their cars's cars. The authorities’ reaction fuelled the protest movement. In some Armenian cities, security officials paid visits to the parents of young protesters for “explanatory talks”. In the Armenian capital, Yerevan, police arrested both ring leaders and rank-and-file. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan threatened to order a large-scale crackdown, raising fears of a repeat of the 2008 clashes between police and demonstrators that killed ten people, both protesters and police. Thousands of protesters poured into the centre of the Armenian capital, Yerevan. By 22 April, more than 100,000 people packed the Armenian capital, Yerevan's main square – a level of mobilisation not seen since the national liberation movement thirty years ago. 22 April, long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan stepped down. In long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's resignation statement long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan admitted that long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan had no clear idea of the situation in the country. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan thus not only became the first post-Soviet leader in fifteen years to concede power peacefully to street rallies but also took the even rarer step of admitting long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's mistakes and disconnect from citizens. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan rise to power came by way of the war with neighbouring Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, the defining issue for the country since the country regained independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan is from Karabakh; long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's modest two-storey parental home, with his modest two-storey parental home, with its well-kept courtyard and veranda's well-kept courtyard and veranda, sits on the outskirts of the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh's de facto capital of Stepanakert. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan made long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's name directing civilian logistics, as demands by the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh to secede from neighbouring Azerbaijan and join the country escalated into full-fledged war. Armenian forces prevailed in two years of fighting, driving the Azerbaijanis out of almost the entire territory of the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh – and seven adjacent districts of neighbouring Azerbaijan. the war with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, the defining issue for Armenia since it regained independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union ended with a ceasefire in 1994, but the two sides never managed to seal a peace deal. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan moved to Yerevan, where long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan soon took over a security ministry. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan was elected president in 2008. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan strengthened long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's hold on power, striking deals with major political players and businessmen inside the country. long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's presidency coincided with global economic crisis and Russia’s mounting assertiveness toward Russia’s's immediate neighbours. The conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh had left the country's borders with neighbouring Azerbaijan and Turkey closed, which in turn made the country more dependent on Russia’s. At the same time, neighbouring Azerbaijan undertook a vast effort, funded by neighbouring Azerbaijan's growing oil wealth, to modernise neighbouring Azerbaijan's armed forces. the country, desperate to keep up, became even more reliant on Russia’s for weaponry, financial aid to support military development and protection (Russia’s, despite Russia’s's alliance with the country, sells arms to the two sides). A fruitless peace process hardened positions on the two sides in recent years. Meanwhile, on the domestic front, long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan strengthened long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's hold on power, striking deals with major political players and businessmen inside the country. “long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan has built a pyramid, and no one can do anything about a pyramid”, a critic explained on one of my first visits to the Armenian capital, Yerevan in late 2016. Journalists nicknamed long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan a “chess grandmaster” for long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's ability to outfox opponents and long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's widely publicised admiration for the game. But the president, in long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's early sixties, has appeared drained in recent years. Members of his party say long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan strictly narrowed long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's communications to long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's closest circle and limited long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's contact with the press. Reporters complained that during presidential trips around the country Reporters were allowed to film only after long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan had left, “apparently, so that Reporters did not suddenly ask too much”, one suggested. What’s Next? Following long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's resignation, all political forces in the country are preparing for snap parliamentary elections. snap parliamentary elections, in principle might oust much of the discredited ruling elite, given the anger recently on display against long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan. But there is no organised opposition to replace much of the discredited ruling elite. opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan, flush with newfound popularity accumulated during the April protests, will make a bid to succeed long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan as prime minister. A day after long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan resignation, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan called on opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's supporters to join opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan in renewed protests against remaining leaders of long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's party. But details of opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's views on important issues, including Nagorno-Karabakh, are little-known. opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's promises of “a different Armenia” – let alone far-reaching economic and military reforms ­– may strike voters as sweeping but unconvincing. The coming weeks and months may see several forces jostling for power in a small country with weak institutions and a history of personalised policymaking. At opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's first press conference after long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan's resignation, which was packed with dozens of local and foreign reporters, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan said opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan was not going to make fast promises on possible changes in the country's foreign policy course and was ready to fight for the country's national interests and Nagorno-Karabakh. opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan expressed opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan's determination to promote cohabitation with officials in the country, especially mid-level officials, but only if officials in the current government, especially mid-level officials agree to support the complete removal of his party. If opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan prevails in elections and becomes the country's leader, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan also may launch investigations into allegations of corruption and misrule. “But we will not look for a vendetta”, opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan has told reporters. The coming weeks and months may thus see several forces jostling for power in a small country with weak institutions and a history of personalised policymaking. At the same time, signs from Nagorno-Karabakh are worrying. Some weeks ago, the de facto leadership of Nagorno-Karabakh informed the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh's authorities and parliamentarians that the de facto leadership of Nagorno-Karabakh expected some form of Azerbaijani destabilisation along the line of contact, the heavily militarised zone that separates Armenian and Azerbaijani troops. the country distributed video footage apparently showing Azerbaijani heavy weaponry being the accusation toward Armenian forces. neighbouring Azerbaijan denied the accusation. The co-chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group – the international mediators in the conflict – called on the two sides to respect the ceasefire “at this delicate time.” The last major confrontation in April 2016, which was the deadliest since 1994, killed more than 200 people, mostly military personnel. Since then, the two sides have increased the two sides's combat capabilities, making some more confident in the possibility of a military solution. In the event of renewed clashes, the number of victims, primarily among the civilian population, could well be much larger than in 2016. About 300,000 people live in the 15km-wide zone along the Azerbaijani side of the line of contact, the heavily militarised zone that separates Armenian and Azerbaijani troops. All of the Armenian settlements in Nagorno-Karabakh, are within reach of Azerbaijani missiles and artillery shells. Even before the transition at the top in the Armenian capital, Yerevan, therefore, the two sides must heed the OSCE Minsk Group – the international mediators in the conflict's call for restraint. On the Armenian side, military commanders should abandon the discussion that has been taking place since late 2016 of “pre-emptive strikes” on Azerbaijani positions; “pre-emptive strikes” on Azerbaijani positions would likely lead to a serious escalation with heavy civilian losses. In neighbouring Azerbaijan, politicians should end politicians's routine calls for war. The idea that the country's current turmoil could be a military opportunity is an illusion: any escalation will quickly unite Armenians and lead to prolonged clashes. An effective preventive measure during the transition at the top in Yerevan could be the establishment of an open line of communication between the military personnel of the two sides. Once a new leadership is formed in the country, the two sides should move to break the three-year deadlock in peace talks.
