Возле армянского храмового комплекса в Москве полиция задержала представителей армянской диаспоры, устроивших акцию в поддержку протестов оппозиции в Ереване.
Видео задержаний опубликовано в телеграм-канале блогера Ильи Варламова. Как пишет «Кавказский узел», на акцию пришли около 300 представителей армянской диаспоры.
«Мы за народ Армении, который хочет отставки Сержа Саргсяна. Именно из-за него мы все оказались в России», — заявил изданию Армен, один из участников митинга.
По данным издания «АрмИнфо», полицейских к храму вызвал глава Российской и Ново-Нахичеванской епархии Армянской Апостольской Церкви Езрас. Увидев полицию, участники акции попытались войти в храм, но священнослужители их не пустили.
Полиция задержала возле церкви около 60 человек, большинство из них — активисты армянских молодежных объединений, пишет «АрмИнфо». В Ереване с 13 апреля проходят акции против бывшего президента Армении Сержа Саргсяна, который 17 апреля стал премьер-министром.
Полиция ежедневно задерживает от нескольких десятков до нескольких сотен демонстрантов. 22 апреля после неудачных переговоров с Саргсяном был задержан лидер протестов, глава оппозиционной фракции «Елк» в парламенте Никол Пашинян.
Его обвинили в организации незаконных массовых собраний. Несмотря на задержание Пашиняна, в Ереване 22 апреля началась самая масштабная акция с момента начала протестов. По данным полиции, в ней участвуют 35 тысяч человек, по данным оппозиции — 160 тысяч.

Canadian officials welcomed the decision by Armenia’s Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan to step down on Monday following 11 days of mass and largely peaceful protests against his continued rule in the former Soviet republic.
Sargsyan, who ruled Armenia for 10 years, resigned Monday as prime minister after tens of thousands of people flooded the streets in the capital of Yerevan and other cities and towns to protest his political maneuvering to cling to power in the South Caucasus republic. Canada respects Sargsyan’s to step down as prime minister, following peaceful negotiations with opposition leaders, Austen added.
Pressure on the 63-year-old to quit had increased sharply on Monday when unarmed soldiers in the capital Yerevan joined the anti-government protests, which first erupted on April 13 and grew steadily until Monday. More than 100,000 people demonstrated on Sunday their anger with Sargsyan, who had already served two terms as the country’s president and was elected last week by the ruling Republican Party to be the country’s prime minister under the new constitution, despite having repeatedly promised not to do that.
Protests were also held all across the Armenian Diaspora worldwide, including in Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver, where most of Canada’s 63,000-strong Armenian community is concentrated. Sargsyan’s gamble that the arrest of protest leader and opposition MP Nikol Pashinyan following a dramatic meeting between the two men would break the will of the protesters backfired. Even more people joined the protest on Sunday evening and the government was forced to release Pashinyan, who had been arrested alongside hundreds of demonstrators on Sunday.
“Nikol Pashinian was right. I was wrong,” Sargsyan said in his mea culpa statement.
“The movement on the streets is against my rule. I’m complying with their demands.
The stunning development touched off jubilation in Yerevan, with car horns blaring and people dancing in the streets, hugging and waving the tricolor Armenian flag. Pashinyan told an evening rally of tens of thousands of people at Republic Square in Yerevan that the opposition will suspend its protest activities on Tuesday, when Armenians around the world mark the 103rd anniversary of the 1915 Armenian Genocide in Ottoman Turkey.
However, opposition activists want to meet with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetyan on Wednesday to discuss a “peaceful transfer of power,” Pashinyan told the jubilant crowd. The opposition will push for an early parliamentary election to prevent Sargsyan from running Armenia from behind the scenes, Pashinian said.
President Armen Sarkissian has accepted the prime minister’s and the government’s resignation. Armenia’s political parties in parliament now have seven days to put forward the name of a new prime minister. Sargsyan’s allies remain in key positions in the government and it remains unclear whether his resignation will herald any real change.

YEREVAN -- The resignation of Armenia's longtime ruler Serzh Sarkisian in the face of widespread street protests has triggered an outpouring of celebration across the country. "Dear proud citizens of the Republic of Armenia, you have won!" protest leader Nikol Pashinian told a cheering crowd of thousands gathered on Republic Square on April 23.
Sarkisian, who last week was elected to the newly powerful post of prime minister after ruling for 10 years as president, in a dramatic turn of events earlier in the day had announced his resignation after previously rejecting demands that he step down. In a pointed and direct statement to the country on April 23, he said he was acquiescing to calls from Pashinian and the demonstrators the opposition lawmaker had led for 11 days and leaving office.
"The movement of the street is against my tenure. I am fulfilling your demand," Sarkisian said in a statement on the prime minister's website. "Nikol Pashinian was right. I was wrong," he said, adding a suggestion that he did not want to resort to force to stay in office.
The government named former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, an ally of Sarkisian, as acting prime minister. Under Armenia's constitution, political factions in parliament now have seven days to put forward the name of a new prime minister. "I hope that the leaders of [Sarkisian's] Republican Party will unequivocally and unconditionally recognize the victory of the people's velvet, nonviolent revolution," he said.
Pashinian also said that all the demonstrators who were detained or arrested during the protest movement must be released by the end of the day. Late on April 23, the Health Ministry said one demonstrator, a 36-year-old man, died of heart failure after a celebratory rally in Yerevan, AFP reported. Sarkisian was elected prime minister by parliament on April 17, eight days after his two-term presidency ended.
His handpicked successor, Armen Sarkisian -- who is not related, was sworn in as president on April 9 after being elected by parliament. But under constitutional changes that Serzh Sarkisian pushed through in 2015, the prime minister is now more powerful than the president, who is more of a figurehead.
Sarkisian had previously said he would not seek to become prime minster, and protesters were upset for his violation of that pledge, claiming the shift threatened to make the 63-year-old leader for life. The announcement came just hours after Pashinian and two other opposition lawmakers were released from police custody, a day after they were detained for their role in protests that had at times crippled the capital's streets and major roads leading to other cities. Protesters had also rallied in Gyumri and Vanadzor, the second- and third-largest cities in the country that borders Georgia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, and Iran.
The protests, which started mainly among younger Armenians, had been gaining in size and intensity. About 200 men wearing army uniforms linked arms had joined in the march on April 23, a sign of the increasing pressure Sarkisian faced. The peaceful protests had roiled the former Soviet republic of about 3 million, a Russian ally in a volatile region plagued by the persistent conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh.
The demonstrations were a relatively rare example of civil protest effecting major political change in the former Soviet Union. The spokeswoman for Russia's Foreign Ministry voiced solidarity with Armenia following Sarkisian's resignation.
"A people that has the ability to maintain respect for one another and not divide even in the most difficult moments in its history -- despite categorical differences -- is a mighty people," Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook. "Armenia, Russia is always with you," she added. In a statement, European Union foreign-policy chief Federica Mogherini’s spokeswoman, Maja Kocijancic, said that a national dialogue involving all political stakeholders in Armenia was "crucial" to resolve the current situation quickly and peacefully. The president of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Thomas Kent, called the attacks against three RFE/RL journalists during mass rallies in Yerevan over the weekend "unacceptable" and called for swift and appropriate measures to ensure the perpetrators are held accountable.
"The fact that police have been among the perpetrators, or have abetted them, is especially disturbing," Kent said in a statement. On April 22, the U.S. Embassy to Armenia expressed concern over "reports of violence against journalists and demonstrators," and called for accountability for those responsible.
Fears were building that the peaceful protests might turn violent, especially with police authorities arresting scores daily and issuing warnings that they would not tolerate unlawful rallies. Sarkisian's shock move comes a day before Armenians hold annual ceremonies to honor the victims of mass killings in 1915 in Ottoman Turkey, which Armenia and some other countries consider genocide.
Sarkisian and Pashinian tried to hold talks a day earlier, but they ended quickly with the prime minister accusing his opponents of "blackmail" and walking out after about three minutes. Pashinian accused Sarkisian of losing touch with reality and he urged his supporters to turn out in larger numbers for peaceful civil-disobedience protests across the country. He said that he told the president he would only negotiate with the government "the terms of Serzh Sarkisian's resignation and a peaceful transition of power." He also said that as long as the protests were peaceful, the police should not break them up.
Before walking out, Sarkisian said that Pashinian's political alliance had "only six or seven percent of the vote" in parliamentary elections, and that he should not to speak on behalf of the people or issue ultimatums to the government. Critics say Sarkisian has brought Armenia too close to Moscow and President Vladimir Putin, with whom he has a close relationship. Armenia is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), two regional groupings that observers say Russia is using to try to maintain influence in the region and keep members from forging closer ties with the West.
Putin also switched between the positions of president and prime minister to remain in power, becoming head of government in 2008 when he faced a limit of two straight terms, and then returning to the presidency in 2012. Another regional leader, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, also changed positions, becoming head of state after years as prime minister. Erdogan also beefed up the powers of the presidency to tighten his grip on power.

Лидер протестов в Армении Никол Пашинян призвал правящую Республиканскую партию (РПА) «капитулировать», сообщает корреспондент РБК.
Оппозиционер выступил на многотысячном митинге на площади Республики в Ереване. ​«Некоторые
в этом здании (здании правительства Армении. — РБК) считают, что народ так удивлен и удовлетворен отставкой [экс-премьер-министра] Сержа Саргсяна, что после вчерашнего празднования позабыл, зачем собрался», — заявил Пашинян.
По его словам, врио главы правительства Карен Карапетян считал, что протестующие больше не выйдут на новые митинги. «Карену Карапетяну следует безоговорочно и без условий признать победу нашей революции и не проявлять каких-либо пожеланий оставаться у власти.
Мы требуем единогласной и безоговорочной капитуляции РПА», — объявил Никол Пашинян. Он отметил, что после отставки Саргсяна правительство страны ушло в отставку, и в Армении сейчас нет действующего правительства.
Оппозиционер заявил, что Карапетян не имеет законного права выполнять обязанности премьер-министра. Пашинян также призвал жителей Армении начать 26 апреля забастовку и «акции гражданского неповиновения» и снова собраться на митинг в Ереване.
Он сообщил, что в городе Севан находится 60 фур, которые в четверг заблокируют весь Ереван. В среду, 25 апреля, в парламенте Армении распалась правящая коалиция после того, как из союза с Республиканской партией вышла националистическая партия «Дашнакцутюн». «Дашнакцутюн» выступала в этой коалиции в роли младшего партнера, и обе партии имели в парламенте 65 мест (при общем количестве 105 мест).
Таким образом, в союзе с националистами РПА имела полный контроль над Национальным собранием. Теперь у правящей партии остается 58 мест в парламенте. Оппозиционный блок «Елк» в парламенте Армении выдвинул на пост премьер-министра кандидатуру Пашиняна.
Сам оппозиционер не раз заявлял о своей готовности возглавить правительство до момента досрочных выборов в парламент, но подчеркивал, что только в том случае, «если народ возложит такую ответственность» на него. Правящую РПА Пашинян называл «призраком».

YEREVAN -- Armenian opposition leader Nikol Pashinian says he has warned acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian against imposing a state of emergency as new antigovernment protests erupted on the streets of Yerevan.
In a rally in the central Republic Square late on April 25, Pashinian also claimed that some lawmakers within the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) were ready to drop Karapetian and support a "people's candidate" as the Caucasus country's new prime minister. Pashinian also claimed that Karapetian was not "backed" by Russia, which is Armenia's main ally, and that he had received assurances from Russian officials that Moscow would not intervene in Yerevan's internal affairs. Pashinian warned Karapetian that "the people will blockade" the parliament building if he tries to nominate a new candidate for prime minister.
The comments came after the long-dominant Republican Party's junior partner decided to quit the alliance with the governing coalition, dealing a blow to the HHK, which opponents accuse of clinging to power after its leader quit the prime minister's post following nearly two weeks of demonstrations. Dashnaktsutyun is the junior partner with the HHK in parliament with seven seats. The HHK has 58 in the 105-seat parliament, meaning it could still hold power if it has no defections among its members. However, the splintering of the ruling coalition could be cause for concern for the government amid continuing protests over the HHK's hold on power and as other political forces began to take sides.
An opposition bloc announced on April 25 that it would officially nominate Pashinian as the next prime minister. Armenian opposition figures rejoiced at the resignation on April 23 of longtime leader Serzh Sarkisian following 11 days of demonstrations. The catalyst for the protests was Sarkisian's shift to the newly powerful post of prime minister after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when he reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Pashinian on April 25 launched a fresh demonstration on the streets of the capital after the cancelation of planned talks between himself and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, a senior HHK member who said he rejected Pashinian's conditions for the negotiations.
Police were deployed in the city center as the new protest began, casting new uncertainly over the country's political future. "I believe that our nonviolent, velvet revolution has sent a clear message that...the Republican Party can no longer be in power," Pashinian said. “We demand that the Republican Party give up its power and...unequivocally recognize the victory of the people," he said, speaking through a bullhorn as he marched at the head of a column of protesters in his trademark camouflage T-shirt.
The Republicans must also be "deprived of their power" so that Sarkisian cannot rule Armenia as de facto head of a "shadow government," Pashinian added. Pashinian called for snap elections to parliament, which is now dominated by the HHK, and for a "the people's candidate" to be chosen as interim prime minister until the vote is held. The HHK has suggested it is open to potentially holding early parliamentary elections but wants to remain at the head of government in the interim.
"The logical solution is that political parties -- within the framework of our constitution and the law -- sit down and discuss whether there is a need for early elections" and when they could be held, Karapetian told a news conference on April 25. President Armen Sarkisian -- a relative figurehead under the new system and no relation to the former prime minister -- said in a statement that he would start consultations with "parliamentary and nonparliamentary representatives" to try to find "a way out" of the country's political crisis.
Pashinian said that acts of civil disobedience by his supporters had expanded to include a blockade on a customs post on the border with Georgia, which lies between Armenia and Russia. Meanwhile, the Prosperous Armenia Party led by wealthy businessman Gagik Tsarukian -- whose bloc has the second-largest faction in parliament -- called on its members to "be with the people" in the streets.
The Heritage party, which has no parliament seats but whose leader, Raffi Hovannisian, came in second in the 2013 presidential election, according to official results, did the same. Edmon Marukian, a member of parliament’s opposition Yelk faction, said there were already enough votes in parliament to nominate Pashinian -- who is one of the three formal leaders of Yelk -- as a candidate for the prime minister's post. In parliament, where at least 27 votes are needed to nominate a candidate for the prime minister’s post, Yelk has nine lawmakers and Tsarukian's BHK has 31 seats.
"A situation has been created when, without the Republican Party giving up power, nothing will move," Marukian told RFE/RL while marching with protesters. "With the BHK, we already have 40 seats and we are 13 seats short" of the votes needed to elect Pashinian prime minister, Marukian said. He said he believed the groups can get "the missing votes" from members of the Republican Party, which has 58 seats in parliament, and its now former coalition partner Dashnaktsutyun, which has seven. But Vahram Baghdasarian, the leader of the HHK parliamentary faction, told RFE/RL that his party remained "united" and that none of its members would break ranks.
"We still consider that this is a domestic affair and hope that our Armenian friends will be able to resolve this situation and find a stable structure and a consensus decision soon," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. The Kremlin later said President Vladimir Putin had spoken to his Armenian counterpart on April 25 to discuss the situation. "Vladimir Putin and Armen Sarkisian emphasized that to overcome the internal crisis as soon as possible, it is of importance to show restraint and responsibility and readiness to solve the existing problems through constructive dialogue in strict compliance with the constitution," the Kremlin said. The United States and the European Union have called for restraint and political dialogue.

Лидер протестов в Армении и депутат парламента Никол Пашинян пообещал продолжать массовые акции до тех пор, пока не будет утвержден временным премьером.
Об этом он рассказал в интервью РБК вечером 25 апреля. Пашинян не откажется от протестов, если Республиканская партия, контролирующая парламент, не даст ему стать премьером. Отвечая на вопрос, видит ли он еще кого-то на месте временного премьера, Пашинян ответил: «Сегодня уже решили на площади этот вопрос».
Вечером 25 апреля на площади Республики в Ереване прошел очередной митинг в поддержку движения Пашиняна.
Он, по оценке организаторов, стал самым массовым. Его участники голосом поддержали все требования оппозиционера.
До этого самой многочисленной была акция 22 апреля. В ней, по оценке оппозиционеров, приняло участие до 160 тыс.
человек. Полиция оценила численность его участников в 35 тыс.
Результатом воскресного митинга стало выполнение первого требования протестующих — отставка с поста премьера Сержа Саргсяна, до апреля этого года в течение десяти лет занимавшего пост президента. Он покинул пост 23 апреля.
После его отставки у Пашиняна и сторонников остались два требования: он должен возглавить правительство после ухода Саргсяна, в стране должны как можно скорее пройти досрочные парламентские выборы. Пока временно исполняющим обязанности премьера является Карен Карапетян из Республиканской партии Армении (РПА)​. Партия занимает большинство в парламенте, а ее лидером является Серж Саргсян.
О том, кто будет выдвинут премьером от партии, пока не сообщалось. До среды Республиканская партия состояла в коалиции
с националистической «Дашнакцутюн», вместе они контролировали 65 из 105 мест. Однако «Дашнакцутюн» заявила о выходе из коалиции и поддержке народных протестов. После этого у РПА формально осталось 58 мест (для утверждения премьера необходимо 53 голоса из 105 в парламенте).

Armenian protest leader Nikol Pashinian has been officially nominated by his Yelk alliance as the party’s candidate for prime minister a day before a vote in parliament on a new head of government after street protests forced the resignation of Serzh Sarkisian. Pashinian, who had already secured the support of all opposition factions, was nominated unanimously by Yelk on April 30, lawmaker Ararat Mirzoyan told RFE/RL.
The nomination of the 42-year-old comes a day after several thousand people rallied to demand that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) transfer power to Pashinian by electing him to the prime minister's post on May 1. Pashinian addressed the April 29 gathering, telling protesters that he thinks it is "very likely that at least some members of the HHK faction" would vote for a "people's candidate" for prime minster. He called on supporters to pause their actions of civil disobedience and to stop calling and sending emails to HHK lawmakers.
However, he urged them to return to the square in the evening of April 30. “I want to look straight in the eyes of all of you, with all the confidence to declare that yes, I am ready to assume the office of the prime minister of the Republic of Armenia and to serve the people of Armenia,” Pashinian told the rally. After meeting with HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian on April 29, Pashinian told reporters that there was no mood among members of the Republican Party to "thwart" the parliamentary vote. "There is a mood that a prime minister should be elected on May 1," he said, without elaborating.
Baghdasarian told reporters that the HHK would not hinder the election of Pashinian if the other factions in parliament support his candidacy. Meanwhile, the former ruling coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun, announced that it was formally supporting Pashinian's candidacy in the May 1 parliamentary vote. Dashnaktsutyun’s decision came after the HHK, which has 58 seats in the 105-seat parliament, decided on April 28 that it would not nominate its own candidate.
The second largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, has also pledged to support Pashinian. The Tsarukian Alliance controls 31 seats in parliament.
Pashinian's Yelk alliance has nine seats. That means Pashinian needs support from at least six members of the HHK to be elected. HHK spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov said Republican lawmakers plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc.
Pashinian has led weeks of street demonstrations in Armenia that resulted in the resignation of Serzh Sarkisian from the prime minister’s post. He hopes that a massive show of support on the streets during the next two days will convince HHK lawmakers to vote him to power.
The U.S. State Department weighed in on Armenia’s political standoff late on April 28, saying it continues to "closely" monitor the situation. "As a friend of Armenia, we urge all parties to engage in good faith negotiations on the formation of a new government in accordance with the constitution, and to reach a resolution that reflects the interests of all Armenians," it said in a statement.
HHK holds 58 seats in the 105-seat parliament, and without its support Pashinian is unlikely to be elected. However, the second biggest party in parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), hinted it might support him. "My team and I will vote for a people's candidate, whether it's Nikol Pashinian or anyone else nominated by the people," party leader Gagik Tsarukian told Kentron TV.
The current crisis was triggered by Serzh Sarkisian's shift earlier this month to the newly powerful post of prime minister after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when he reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Pashinian on April 27 promised no "geopolitical reversals" in front of thousands of supporters in Gyumri, the country's second-largest city and host to a large Russian military base.
Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- has said it will not intervene in the standoff. However, President Vladimir Putin on April 26 talked on the telephone with Karapetian, a former Gazprom manager, calling for a quick solution to the Armenian crisis -- one that would reflect the outcome of last year’s parliamentary elections won by Sarkisian's HHK, the Kremlin said.
Pashinian, in his speeches to the local crowds on April 28 repeatedly called on local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors to publicly announce their joining what he called the "Popular Movement," in an apparent effort to consolidate his public support base. “I want to confirm that we are ready for negotiations, and we are interested in resolving these problems as soon as possible," he said. On April 29, Pashinian vowed to enhance relations with Moscow, saying Armenia and Russia "will benefit from this process" if he becomes prime minister.
But he added, "We will also step up our relations in all the directions, and will expand relations with the EU, the U.S., China, Iran, and Georgia. There is every prerequisite for this," he said.

Politics is like mosaic and you will not understand a lot while looking at it very closely, you should distance yourself a bit to get the whole picture. Meaning both – physically and timewise.
The first fragments of today’s political mosaic started to visualize yet in 2015, during the constitutional amendments, when the ruling party, presenting their own vision of constitutional amendments, came up with a rather ambitious initiative of transforming Armenia into a parliamentary state. And what implies parliamentarism? It implies a competitive political environment and diversity, developed party system and freedom for its development, true mechanisms of checks and balances, real tools of guaranteed parliamentary oversight for the opposition, elimination of political monopoly, eradication of the principle “all to the winner, none to the looser” and so on.
In principle, this includes a significant part of the democracy toolkit. Whether the system is parliamentary or presidential, certain minimal conditions must be in place to make it function.
And one of those minimal conditions is the existence of political alternative in the country, which turns politics into an environment of multilateral relations rather than of the ruler’s monologue. Essentially, it was with the purpose of offering a political alternative, that in 2016, Bright Armenia, Republic and Civic Contract parties established the basis for the “Way Out” [Yelq] Coalition, jointly participating in the parliamentary elections of 2017. We have carried out a door-to-door campaign, entering each house and moving from one community to another, introducing our vision of the country’s development from the young to the elderly and informed the citizens of the Republic of Armenia that they had an exceptional chance through those elections to get rid of the acting government, i.e. the ruling Republican Party led by Serzh Sargsyan.
We have explained in detail what mechanisms were implemented to protect the votes of citizens and make sure they reach the purpose. We have ensured that we take the responsibility to protect each vote cast for our Coalition.
We have showed the path through which the political majority of the “Way Out” Coalition could be formed within the Armenian Parliament. In that particular case the “Way Out” Coalition and not the Republican Party could decide who is going to be the number one official of Armenia, i.e. the Prime Minister, according to the new constitution.
During the mentioned campaign we have voiced a number of times that it was the last chance of our citizens to change the government in the country until 2022, since there will no longer be presidential elections in Armenia on a national level and that it was the last electoral campaign for the upcoming 5 years. 770,441 votes or 49.12% to Republican Party, 428,836 votes or 27.32% to Tsarukyan Coalition, 122,065 votes or 7.77% to “Way Out” Coalition, 103,048 votes or 6.57% to Armenian Revolutionary Federation.
On April 4, 2017, two days after the election, the “Way Out” Coalition released a statement stating that mass cases of vote-buying and abuse of administrative resources took place. However, the Alliance also acknowledged the sad fact that those violations were committed by tens of thousands of citizens, in the atmosphere of public tolerance towards the phenomenon, which is a slow action bomb lying under the Armenian statehood. The first point of the Coalition’s statement said that the official results of the elections were generally formed as a result of the votes of citizens participating in the elections, and the “Way Out” Coalition succeeded in registering each vote cast in its favor.
Summarizing the statement, the Coalition acknowledged that it considers itself the delegate of 122 thousand 49 citizens who voted for them and that the Coalition will act for the sake of freedom, security and welfare of every citizen of the Republic of Armenia, the Armenian people, the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Artsakh. The logic behind the Coalition’s statement was that Armenian citizens, in contrast to the previous elections, had the opportunity to prevent the reproduction of Serzh Sargsyan and the Republican Party, had a guaranteed mechanism to keep their own votes, but they did not do so. As a result, the Coalition assumed a high responsibility of being the delegate of the voters who voted for them and therefore did launch an ineffective process of appealing without having documented evidence on such crucial violations or electoral frauds that would have become a solid basis for applying to the Constitutional Court.
After the elections, the “Way Out” Coalition acknowledged that it had a strong and stable support-base in the capital and the “Way Out” faction considered itself as the delegate of nearly 70,000 Yerevan residents voted for the Coalition. The Coalition announced that it declares the defeat of the atmosphere of apathy dominating among the citizens of Armenia as its strategic goal and will do everything to achieve this goal. Taking up the parliamentary work and assuming the role and responsibility of the parliamentary opposition, from the very beginning, the “Way Out” Coalition aimed at becoming a genuine alternative to the ruling party, to control the latter and to properly represent the voice of all citizens in the National Assembly who truly value the agenda of democratic changes in Armenia, through the skillful use of all parliamentary levers.
This was our belief and the behavior so far. Over the years, the government has fed the society with the idea that there is no alternative to the ruling party and that they are only one capable of undertaking a difficult and responsible task of governance. This idea has become a manipulative tool by which the government has often deceived the public, eventually making many to ask the following question: if not them, then who?
Thus, on one hand it is the failure of the state governance and being “the only one” on the other hand. Here is one of the greatest political paradoxes in today’s Armenia. But we have a solution to this paradox. That is why it is of prior importance to show the society that we have a real alternative, we have alternative tools for managing the state, a new political culture and a competitive team.
Hence, from the very beginning the “Way Out” Coalition came up with various alternative initiatives in the National Assembly, nominating its own candidate to chair the National Assembly and presenting alternative programs and approaches. The Coalition has initiated the nomination of an alternative candidate for the President, in which we did not succeed due to the unwillingness of fellow MPs from other factions to join us.
Many initiatives and alternative programs are under development, which should become factors of high importance in Armenia’s political agenda. On a daily basis, we keep our fingers on the pulse of political changes, and these days, as you know, the burning topic is the possible nomination of Serzh Sargsyan in the post of the Prime Minister and the methods and strategy of struggle against it, its political implication, and the unification or not around that process.
For many, this may be a Deja-vu, but in any case, I think it is worth presenting our approaches regarding the topics under discussion and all that we believe in. Still months ago, the “Way Out” Coalition reached a consensus decision that the third term of Serzh Sargsyan’s office was unacceptable to us. At the same time, in the light of this consensus, with political and legal logic we all understood that Serzh Sargsyan, together with its party, was reproduced back in April 2, 2017, so we must be honest with the citizens of Armenia and not use “reproduction” in our rhetoric but “the third term” expression instead. Yes, we are confident, that by going for the third term, Serzh Sargsyan breaks the promise he has made before.
Thus, the entire myth of constitutional reforms is out of the question. Through the recently passed constitutional laws every effort was made to make sure that Armenia has an uncontrollable super-prime minister and zero parliamentary governance, in line with Eurasian traditions.
I am deeply convinced that Armenia does not have the necessary resources to become a dictatorship; it is a pure adventurism. Therefore, all attempts by Serzh Sargsyan and RPA to make Armenia a dictatorship will fail. On the other hand, as a parliamentary power, remaining loyal to the practices we have adopted so far, we could have nominated an alternative candidate for the Prime Minister, present an alternative program, and to do this, it was necessary to have unity and consensus within the Coalition.
We have had many occasions to state that we do not believe in the thesis circulated by our colleagues that people are able not to allow Serzh Sargsyan to become Prime Minister. This does not mean that we are against the people’s “not allowing”.
We only proceed from the fact that just a year ago the people allowed Serzh Sargsyan to become a Prime Minister. In fact, only one thing can hold back Serzh Sargsyan from being a Prime Minister – the absence of desire to become a Prime Minister.
With all other configurations, the game is lost before it has even started, from legal point of view, in terms of struggle of resources, and from the perspective of political science. As a result of a defeated game at this stage we will have to deal with citizens in extreme despair to whom it will be almost impossible to explain why the promised revolution was missed again. On the other hand, it will be very difficult to tune people towards any electoral process in a village, a city, or national elections. Hence, we are honest with our colleagues and our citizens.
In our political analyses, in calculating our resources, we have come to the conclusion that we can challenge Serzh Sargsyan in the Parliament, without the forming ungrounded expectations with people in the streets, and then explain why we could not achieve something in what we ourselves did not believe. Failed hopes deepen the mood of despair, which the “Way Out” Coalition promised to fight against.
In my opinion, at this stage, we have to take over the function of controlling the government and limiting its unlimited powers, which at this point is most feasible and realistic. We must propose to the authorities to ensure that the “Way Out” Coalition, as a parliamentary opposition, and widely trusted layers of the civil society, be given places in all control and independent structures established according to the existing and amended constitution, in bodies of carrying out checks and balances, which do not bear any executive authority.
In particular, the government should yield to the post of chairmen of 2 standing committees of the National Assembly, the political right to appoint a future member of the Constitutional Court, the political right to appoint 2 of the 5 members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the political right to appoint the Human Rights Defender, the post of the Chairman of the Public Council, 2 out of the 7 members of the Central Electoral Commission and 2 out of 7 members of the National Commission on Television and Radio (NCTR), the right to appoint 3 of the 7 members of the Audit Chamber, the possibility to nominate 2 out of 8 members of the Board of the Central Bank, to enable the oppositional forces and widely trusted public institutes of civil society to appoint 3 out of 7 SCPEC members and 2 out of 5 PSRC members, as well as at least 3 out of 5 members of the Corruption Prevention Committee, indeed in case of passing all stages of competition and interviews. Systematic damage to Armenia in recent years can be reduced only through cooperation with the civil society and the opposition, as a result of forming checks and balances, there is no alternative to this and cannot be.
At the same time, it should be noted that in the course of formation of the new parliament during this passing year, a number of anti-democratic events took place under the authority of the ruling party, which make the need for controlling the latter more vital. In particular, the parliamentary majority made a political decision to reduce the number of standing committees of the National Assembly by 1 making it 9. The reason for this was that the chair of the 10th standing committee had to be provided to the representative of the “Way Out” Coalition, hence, this decision was made to prevent such a development.
The new Judicial Code was passed with violations, according to which a court penalty will be applied to advocates since 2019. Arthur Sargsyan, the “bread-bearer”, died in a penitentiary, having incurable illnesses inconsistent with imprisonment, and no one has been held accountable for that. Taxes and other mandatory payments have been raised, and the draft bill on ethics committees was rejected in the parliament for the use of violence against a pro-opposition MP.
According to the new law, the government sessions become closed, and journalists are not allowed to attend the Yerevan Council meetings. The Constitution is being violated, by creating the position of the First Vice Prime Minister, and the structure of the government becomes such that it is eventually out of the parliamentary oversight, turning into an immensely powerful vehicle with no control.
According to human rights NGOs in Armenia, there are political prisoners in Armenia. I share this opinion and I believe that all public-political figures who are in prisons or are being prosecuted should immediately be released and criminal prosecution should be stopped.
All the above-mentioned arguments and in-depth assessments of the political reality once again prove that Armenia has a continuous regress of democracy, which requires radical and systemic changes to stop it. I am convinced that if the authorities continue to ignore the arguments, reject the civilized culture of political struggle, not to listen to the voice raised by me and other likeminded citizens, the voices of shooting will be heard more often inside the country, which will throw Armenia back for decades, deepening discouragement and undermining the foundations of the state.

YEREVAN (Reuters) - A large group of unarmed Armenian soldiers joined anti-government protests in the capital Yerevan on Monday in a development the Armenian military said was illegal and would be harshly punished.
The move, likely to deepen the country’s biggest political crisis in a decade, follows days of street protests against Serzh Sarksyan, the newly-appointed prime minister whom protesters accuse of clinging to power. Before being appointed prime minister, Sarksyan, 63, did a 10-year stint as president. Under a constitutional change, most state powers are now invested in his new role.
The protests, though peaceful so far, threaten to destabilize a key Russian ally in a volatile region riven by a long low level conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and would, if successful, be a rare example of people power delivering reform in the former Soviet Union. Tens of thousands of protesters have marched through the capital Yerevan in recent days, blocking streets and staging sit-ins. They are demanding that Sarksyan resign to pave the way for early elections, something he has so far refused to do.
On Sunday, police detained three opposition leaders and nearly 200 protesters, drawing a rebuke from the European Union. On Monday, men wearing military uniforms could be seen marching in Yerevan with protesters. Images broadcast on the Internet and social media showed the soldiers hugging protesters and waving the country’s national flag.
The Armenian Defense Ministry condemned what it said was their illegal action, saying the men belonged to a brigade of military peacekeepers. “The harshest legal measures will be taken against the soldiers,” it said in a statement.

Protests in Armenia continued for a fourth straight day on April 16, growing to an estimated 10,000 people and effectively shutting down Yerevan’s downtown. The protesters also disrupted metro operations and stormed university campuses.
The protests also saw their first violence, with several clashes between police and protesters. As a result, 46 people, including six police officers, were injured, Armenia’s Health Ministry reported.
The growing protests are aimed at preventing Serzh Sargsyan from assuming the position of prime minister. He resigned as president a week earlier and, under a new constitution that makes the prime minister the country's most powerful figure, is set to extend his unpopular rule indefinitely.
It remains unclear what effect the protests will have on Sargsyan's rule, but they have already grown far larger than most observers expected, creating one of the biggest crises in his ten years in power. The protests appeared to be dispersed widely throughout Yerevan's downtown, expanding from their center around France Square.
Crowds, led by protest leader and MP Nikol Pashinyan, stormed the downtown campuses of Yerevan Basic Medical College and Pedagogical University. Protesters also shut down Baghramyan Avenue, blocking the National Assembly, where members are scheduled to elect Sargsyan as prime minister on April 17.
Throughout the day, Pashinyan kept stressing that “the police are our brothers” and repeatedly apologized to policemen for the inconvenience caused by the demonstrations and called on protesters not to attack police, verbally or otherwise. Many followed his lead by offering police officers tulips. For a time, the tactic worked and thousands of protesters were able to easily pass through police cordons.
But the tension ultimately snapped when, in the afternoon, Sargsyan gave his first public reaction to the nomination by his party, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia. “I'm ready to take on this responsibility,” he said in an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestiya.
That was soon followed by the news that the Republicans and their partners, ARF Dashnaksutyun, unanimously ruled to formally introduce Sargsyan as their coalition's nominee for the PM’s office. Reacting to the news, the crowd led by Pashinyan tried to storm the National Assembly building.
Police blocked their way with barbed wire and used batons, as well as stun and sound grenades, to disperse the protesters. Pashinyan was injured in the fracas and taken to hospital. He later said his injuries came from cutting his hands on barbed wire and a stun grenade explosion, and not from police batons. Returning to the protest scene, Pashinyan was greated by his fellow MPs from his bloc in parliament, Yelk.
Pashinyan gained another prominent ally on Monday in radical opposition leader Jirayr Sefilian, who publicly endorsed the protests from his jail cell. One of the day’s most dramatic episodes took place on Koryun Street, where students disrupting traffic were attacked by a group of men in black clothes who arrived on the scene in a black Mercedes SUV and a white Toyota sedan.
After giving a brutal beating to a number of protesters, the unidentified men got back into their cars and drove away. Despite the heavy police presence, officers made no attempt to arrest the attackers.
RFE/RL’s Armenian service recorded the incident, and while the attackers have yet to be identified, their vehicle, style of dress and violent behavior suggests a connection to organized crime or the country’s oligarchs (the two are often interlinked). In an attempt to put a stop to the clashes, Pashinyan ultimately reached an agreement with Yerevan’s deputy police chief Valery Osipyan: as the protesters retreated a few steps back from the barbed wire, the police promised to not use force.

After almost two weeks of mass protests, Armenia’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, announced on Monday, April 23, that he would step down. Commentators in Russia and internationally expressed fears that the political crisis could lead to a renewed escalation of the frozen military conflict over Nagorno-Karabkh with neighboring Azerbaijan with potentially far-reaching consequences for the entire region.
The protests started 11 days earlier, after Sargsyan announced he would be the country’s prime minister after serving 10 years as president. In 2015, Sargsyan had pushed for changes to the constitution that would give him the same powers as prime minister that he had wielded as president.
Initially limited to a few hundred people, drawn largely from supporters of the liberal, pro-EU opposition, the protests rapidly embraced broader sections of the population and spread to cities other than the capital, Yerevan. By April 21, about 100,000 people had joined the protests across the country.
Thousands of students at the country’s most important universities went on strike. There were also reports of strikes by workers at a number of factories.
In a country of just under 3 million people, the protests involved a significant portion of the population and are among the largest in Armenian history. The scope of the protests, which took virtually everyone by surprise, and the involvement of sections of the working class indicate that more was involved than just the machinations of the pro-EU opposition, which has received barely 8 percent of the votes in the country’s last parliamentary elections. After over a decade in power, Sargsyan was widely associated with a state of corruption and ill-begotten wealth at the top side-by-side with desperate poverty for the majority of the population.
The official unemployment rate stands at almost 18 percent, and almost every third Armenian lives beneath the very low poverty line. The average salary in the capital Yerevan was just $390 a month in 2016.
Unlike Russia, Azerbaijan or Kazakhstan, Armenia does not have any significant raw material resources, making it one of the poorest and economically most underdeveloped states that emerged out of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. Since then, about a third of the population has left the country because of the lack of jobs in Armenia.
Hundreds of protesters were arrested by the government, including several opposition leaders. On Monday, up to 200,000 people—almost a tenth of the country’s population—again took to the streets calling for Sargsyan to step down. Hundreds of members of the armed forces as well as clergy joined the protests, indicating that important sections of the state apparatus had by then also turned against Sargsyan.
However, the biggest fear of the Armenian bourgeoisie as a whole was that the protests would turn into a full-blown movement by the working class. In a desperate attempt to regain control over the situation, Sargsyan announced his resignation, describing the demonstration as a “turning point for the country.” Tens of thousands of people celebrated his resignation.
Pashinian immediately stepped forward, demanding snap elections and for allies of Sargsyan in the government to step down. Protests in support of Pashinian and the opposition on Tuesday drew significantly fewer people than those of the previous days, with about 10,000 supporters marching in Yerevan. The Russian government has issued statements, insisting that the demonstrations were a matter of Armenia’s internal affairs, and indicating Moscow’s hope for a “smooth and peaceful political transition.”
There is little question that the Kremlin, like the Armenian political establishment, fears a movement of the working class in the Caucasus that could quickly spread beyond the borders of the small country. While broader sections of the working class and youth were involved in the protests, under conditions of the absence of any political organization that expresses their interests, the liberal opposition has been able to step forward in an attempt to reassert control over the situation in the interests of the bourgeoisie and to advance its own foreign policy agenda. The political crisis in Armenia has implications far beyond the borders of the country.
Due to its geographic location in the Caucasus, which functions as a bridgehead between eastern Europe and the Middle East and possesses some of the world’s largest oil reserves, developments in the region have far-reaching implications for the geopolitical situation internationally. Ever since 1991, the Armenian government has maintained very close ties to Russia, by far its most important economic and military partner. Russia also has an important military base in southern Armenia.
In recent years, however, the Armenian government has undertaken tentative steps toward a rapprochement with the EU. Yet in 2013, the government backed away from signing an Association Agreement with the EU, and instead joined the Russia-led Eurasian Union.
The liberal opposition has sharply criticized this move and has continued to advocate for an Association Agreement with the EU. In February 2017, the Armenian government announced that it wanted to work within both the EU and the Eurasian Union, and signed an agreement for closer economic and political ties with the EU. The liberal opposition advocates a pro-market platform and deeper cooperation with the EU, including EU membership.
Several members and trustees of the opposition party Civil Contract, which Nikol Pashinian represents, are entrepreneurs, current or former members of the Armenian political establishment, or are working in the US. The tactical differences over foreign policy within the Armenian bourgeoisie have been significantly exacerbated by the escalating war drive of US imperialism against Russia in both eastern Europe and the Middle East, while the development of growing working class struggles in both Europe and the Middle East has sent shock waves through the ruling class in the region.
Armenia is surrounded by Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Iran. Turkey is a NATO member and has historically had hostile relations with Armenia, while Georgia and Azerbaijan are closely aligned with US imperialism.
Iran, Armenia’s only foreign policy ally among its neighbors, was shaken by mass working class protests last winter. At the same time, the increasingly aggressive posture of US imperialism, which threatens all-out war with Iran, has exacerbated nervousness and tensions in the entire Caucasus.
Russian media have been running reports that US-backed Israel and Iran are standing on the brink of war. Armenia itself has been in a state of war with its neighbor, Azerbaijan, over Nagorno-Karabakh, a small mountain enclave in southern Azerbaijan, since the late 1980s.
The war over the territory from 1988 to 1994 took the lives of 20,000 to 30,000, wounded 50,000 and permanently displaced hundreds of thousands of people. The conflict was never resolved, and border clashes have occurred repeatedly in recent years. Both in the Russian media and in Armenia there were warnings that the current political crisis might fuel a renewed outbreak of the conflict.
Thus, the Russian online newspaper Gazeta. Ru warned that the South Caucasus could become “something like a Middle East in miniature, the hearth for a new war,” if Azerbaijan were to exploit the current political crisis in Armenia and intervene militarily to reestablish control over Nagorno-Karabakh. Azerbaijan, one of the most important oil-producing countries in the world, has maintained close ties to both the EU and especially US imperialism, which has built up extensive ties with Azeri oil and gas companies since 1991. Azerbaijan has also been an important ally in the US war preparations against Iran and would likely receive US backing in any open military clash with Armenia.

MOSCOW — After weeks of nationwide protests, street parties and jubilant mayhem, on Wednesday the leader of Armenia’s pro-democracy movement urged his flock to rest, confident victory is finally within sight. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight It followed a turbulent 24 hours: After the Armenian parliament voted against making Nikol Pashinyan prime minister on Tuesday evening, he ratcheted up the pressure by organizing his largest-ever strikes and blockades of major roads including, briefly, the access highway to the country’s sole international airport. To an estimated crowd of 150,000 people in the center of the capital, Yerevan, the charismatic 42-year-old said Wednesday evening he has since persuaded lawmakers to cross party lines and vote for the “people’s candidate” — himself — in the new vote on May 8.
Armenia’s parliament voted 55 to 45 on Tuesday against making Pashinyan, who was also the sole candidate, prime minister, two weeks after Serzh Sargsyan was ousted from the post. If the vote next week also fails, parliament will be dissolved and new elections would need to take place at least a month later.
Acting prime minister Karen Karapetyan, an ally of Sargsyan’s and a former executive at the Russian gas giant Gazprom, will stay in place. Impoverished, landlocked and with close ties to Moscow, Armenia has been under the careful watch of both Russia and the West as recent events unfolded.
The country of 3 million has long relied on Russia, which operates two military bases there, for energy needs and economic backing. Armenia also counts on Russia for keeping its simmering conflict with neighboring Azerbaijan at bay, although Moscow sells arms to both countries.
Pashinyan has repeatedly insisted his movement is unmotivated by geopolitics, and instead by the need to dismantle the ruling elite’s authoritarian grip on power. But Russia has been steadily emerging as a player in Armenia’s political turmoil.
In an open letter to Russian President Vladi­mir Putin on Wednesday, the director of a reputable Armenian news site urged the leader to stay out of Armenian politics. Some argue showing loyalty toward Armenia’s former imperial master is key to ensuring stability. Armenia’s bloodless revolution has so far avoided the aggressive response from Moscow that met the overthrow of authority in other formerly Soviet republics, notably Ukraine and Georgia.

The Armenian authorities cracked down aggressively April 22 on anti-government protests that have consumed the country over the past week, arresting the protests' leader and temporarily throwing the movement he led into disarray.
But the protesters regrouped by evening, holding by far their largest rally to date and showing that anger at the government showed no sign of dissipating. In the morning, police arrested Nikol Pashinyan, the member of parliament who has emerged as the unlikely new hero of the opposition to longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan.
Pashinyan has been the head of the protest movement that has energized the large majority of Armenians fed up with Sargsyan's autocratic, sclerotic rule. The protests had been conducted in a decentralized fashion, with Pashinyan going on daily marches around the city and leading nightly rallies at the central Republic Square, while other supporters carried out creative acts of civil disobedience around the city.
Nevertheless, the arrest of Pashinyan seemed to disorient the movement. The group that was with Pashinyan when he was arrested in Yerevan's Erebuni district marched defiantly toward the center of the city. One young man burned in effigy a stuffed Cheburashka, the Soviet cartoon character to whom Sargsyan bears some resemblance.
But the marchers grew aimless after they were blocked at several points by police, turning around repeatedly to retrace their steps and at times walking in circles. As they have in previous marches, the protesters shouted “join us!” to the bystanders who lined the roads or looked out from their apartment windows.
This day, though, the cries seemed more insistent and desperate. The mood on the march was notably more somber than on previous days. It was a substantially larger crowd than the rally the night before; one local estimate put it at 115,000 people.
The police had promised to break up any rally at the square but they did not follow through on the threat. Rubinyan called on protesters to carry on their civil disobedience activities without Pashinyan or other leaders. “I could be arrested tomorrow,” he said.
Pashinyan was arrested barely an hour after meeting with Sargsyan in the morning at the Marriott Hotel on Republic Square. The meeting – televised and attended by dozens of journalists – ended after only three minutes when Sargsyan walked out, complaining that Pashinyan was presenting him with an “ultimatum” to step down.
“This is not talks, not a dialogue. It’s just an ultimatum, blackmail of the state, of the legitimate authorities,” Sargsyan told Pashinyan.
Sargsyan also ominously referenced March 1, 2008, when police violently broke up crowds of protesters against Sargsyan's election, killing ten. “You have not learned the lesson from March 1,” Sargsyan said.
Police also arrested two other members of parliament who have been active in the protests, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoyan, along with other organizers. The protests began April 13, in opposition to Sargsyan continuing his rule by moving from the presidency into the prime minister's seat. He did so as the country adopted a new constitution changing to a parliamentary form of government in which the prime minister, rather than the president, is the most powerful figure.

Armenian lawmakers are scheduled to meet on May 1 to vote on a replacement for Serzh Sarkisian, who resigned on April 23 amid massive street demonstrations over his selection as prime minister. So far, the only candidate to step forward is opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinian, who was at the forefront of the antigovernment protests that prompted Sarkisian to step down.
The U.S. State Department weighed in on Armenia’s political standoff late on April 28, saying it continues to "closely" monitor the situation. "We support the ongoing efforts of the office of President [Armen] Sarkissian to facilitate dialogue between all parties. We continue to commend the peaceful nature of the demonstrations, and trust that the security forces and those exercising their right to peaceful protest will remain committed to nonviolence in the days to come," it added.
Instead of nominating their own candidate, Republican lawmakers said they plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc, according to spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov. Although the party won't nominate a candidate, individual members apparently could enter the race.
Former Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, who was appointed acting prime minister after Sarkisian stepped down, is a party member. Pashinian told an evening rally on April 28 in Vanadzor, Armenia's third-largest city, that having Karapetian remain in the position would be unacceptable.
HHK holds 58 seats in the 105-seat parliament, and without its support Pashinian is unlikely to be elected. However, the second-biggest party in parliament, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), hinted it might support him. "My team and I will vote for a people's candidate, whether it's Nikol Pashinian or anyone else nominated by the people," party leader Gagik Tsarukian told Kentron TV.
At an earlier rally on April 28 in the town of Ijevan, Pashinian called on supporters to continue protests and to organize big, nonviolent demonstrations in the capital, Yerevan, on May 1. "All protest actions, actions of civil disobedience, should be renewed with new force.
The victory of the people must be recognized," Pashinian, 42, told a rally. The current crisis was triggered by Sarkisian's shift earlier this month to the newly powerful post of prime minister after a decade as president -- a move critics charged was a blatant bid to cling to power when he reached the limit of two straight presidential terms. Opposition lawmaker Pashinian, who has been leading the protests for more than two weeks and has emerged as the leader of a popular protest movement, on April 27 promised no "geopolitical reversals" in front of thousands of supporters in Gyumri, the country's second-largest city and host to a large Russian military base.
Russia -- Armenia's main ally and trading partner -- has said it will not intervene in the standoff. However, President Vladimir Putin on April 26 talked on the telephone with Karapetian, a former Gazprom manager, calling for a quick solution to the Armenian crisis -- one that would reflect the outcome of last year's parliamentary elections won by Sarkisian’s HHK, the Kremlin said. Pashinian on April 28 made stops in several villages and towns before reaching Vanadzor, including a rally in Ijevan, his hometown. Pashinian, in his speeches to the local crowds on April 28, repeatedly called on local governments, municipalities, elected representatives in local assemblies, and mayors to publicly announce their joining what he called the "Popular Movement," in an apparent effort to consolidate his public support base.
“I want to confirm that we are ready for negotiations, and we are interested in resolving these problems as soon as possible," he said in Ijevan. In Gyumri, which hosts 3,000 Russian troops, Pashinian reiterated his position about maintaining good relations with Russia and not dramatically changing Armenia's foreign policy. Pashinian said that, under his stewardship, Armenia would work to make the CSTO "more effective and provide more serious guarantees" for Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh than it has previously. "Armenia will remain committed to all its international obligations," he said, including its partnership agreement with the European Union and its membership in the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union (EEU).
"This does not mean that we consider that there are no things to improve in that cooperation with the EU and the EEU. And we should seek to make these relations better," he said. Pashinian was one of seven Armenian lawmakers who voted against the ratification of the EEU treaty in December 2014. Last year, the Yelk opposition alliance that includes Pashinian's Civil Contract and two other opposition parties demanded Armenia's exit from the Russia-led union. Pashinian's Yelk faction has only nine members in the 105-seat parliament. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which on April 25 pulled out of the governing coalition with the HHK, has seven.

Before Sarkisian’s departure, Pashinyan told him that he was no longer in charge of the country, and that power had shifted into the hands of the people, to which Sarkisian responded that someone who received “six or seven percent of the vote” could not talk about having power of the country.
Just hours after Pashinyan’s conversation with Sarkisian, he was grabbed by security forces, and he is currently being held in detention with two other leaders of the protests—Ararat Mirzoyan and Sasun Mikaelyan (Yelk faction MPs)—in an undisclosed location. According to sources, they were charged with violations of the order established by Armenia’s Law on Freedom of Assembly. Meanwhile, chaos ensued on the streets of Yerevan following Pashinyan’s failed negotiations. Tens of thousands of people continued to protest, and some are placing estimates between 60,000 and 100,000 demonstrators. Hours ago, police issued a statement that the protests are considered unlawful and that police will use all means necessary to disperse people. The president of the National Assembly, Ara Babloyan, has also issued a statement calling for the need for political dialogue. Follow RFE/RL’s Armenian service live stream of the demonstrations below.

Глава правительства Армении Саргсян подал в отставку, говорится в сообщении пресс-службы премьера.
В заявлении Саргсян указал, что в последний раз обращается к гражданам как глава правительства. «Никол Пашинян был прав.
Я был не прав в сложившейся ситуации. У ситуации есть несколько решений, но ни на одно из
них я не пойду. Это не мое.
Я оставляю должность руководителя нашей страны», — цитирует пресс-служба слова Саргсяна. «Улица против моего назначения. И я выполняю ваше требование», — сообщил премьер.
Саргсян также подчеркнул, что выступает против применения армии для разрешения конфликта. Пресс-секретарь премьера Ованнес Никогосян подтвердил РБК, что Саргсян уходит в отставку. Утром 23 апреля Министерство обороны Армении подтвердило, что к акциям протеста в
Ереване присоединились часть военнослужащих из состава миротворческой бригады. В военном ведомстве указали, что солдаты самовольно покинули свою часть.
По данным PanArmenian, речь шла в том числе о контрактниках и бывших участниках конфликта в Нагорном Карабахе. Акции против избрания Саргсяна премьером Армении начались 13 апреля. Он дважды избирался на пост президента, в 2008 и 2013 годах, а главой правительства стал после того, как Армения по Конституции фактически превратилась в парламентскую республику.
Оппозиция обвиняла Саргсяна в неэффективном управлении и ухудшении экономической ситуации в стране. 17 апреля противники политика объявили о начале «бархатной революции». Несмотря на протесты, парламент Армении в тот же день избрал Саргсяна главой кабмина.
Численность прошедшего накануне, 22 апреля, митинга в Ереване местные СМИ оценили в 160 тыс. человек. В тот же день полиция задержала в столице около 300 участников протестных акций.
На проспекте Арцаха в столице Армении прошли столкновения сотрудников правоохранительных органов с демонстрантами. Полиция была вынуждена применить светошумовые гранаты.

YEREVAN (A.W.)—Moments ago, Serge Sarkisian resigned from his post as Armenia’s Prime Minister after nearly two weeks of protests, demonstrations, and acts of civil disobedience across Yerevan and other parts of the country calling for his resignation. “Nikol Pashinyan was right.
I was wrong. There are a few solutions to the current situation, but I am not one of them. I am resigning as the country’s leader, and leaving the post of Armenia’s Prime Minister,” the statement went on.
“You have won, proud citizen of the Republic of Armenia. And no one can snatch this victory from your hands,” Pashinyan, who was released from detention prior to the announcement, wrote on his official Facebook page. “I congratulate you, victorious people,” his post concluded. More to follow.

Националистическая партия «Дашнакцутюн», имеющая семь мест в парламенте Армении, поддержит на выборах премьер-министра кандидатуру Никола Пашиняна, заявил изданию «Новости Армении» представитель партии Арсен Амбарцумян.
Также партия «Процветающая Армения» Гагика Царукяна, у которой второе место после правящей Республиканской партии (РПА) по числу мест в парламенте (31 из 105), отказалась от идеи выдвигать своего кандидата и проголосует на выборах премьер-министра за лидера протестов Никола Пашиняна. О таком решении РБК рассказал источник, близкий к партии Царукяна, и подтвердил собеседник, близкий к Пашиняну. По их словам, Царукян отказался от идеи выдвинуться в качестве кандидата в премьеры и рекомендует депутатам «Процветающей Армении» поддержать на голосовании Пашиняна.
Ранее в субботу, 28 апреля, стало известно, что РПА, контролирующая 58 мест в парламенте страны, не будет выдвигать своего кандидата на выборы главы правительства Армении. Вице-спикер и пресс-секретарь РПА Эдуард Шармазанов пояснил, что намерен рассмотреть всех кандидатов, которые будут выдвинуты до 1 мая (на этот день назначено специальное заседание парламента, в ходе которого планируется рассмотреть вопрос о выборах премьер-министра).
Лидер оппозиции Никол Пашинян был выдвинут на выборы премьера фракцией «Елк», которую он возглавляет. У нее девять мест в парламенте. Таким образом, у оппозиции 47 депутатов, но для выбора премьера необходимо 53 голоса. Пашинян рассчитывает, что ему удастся получить недостающие голоса для избрания, сказал РБК его соратник Ален Симонян. В случае если республиканцы не утвердят Пашиняна, оппозиционеры «сделают ответный шаг», сообщил Симонян.

YEREVAN -- Armenian lawmakers vote on May 1 to elect a new prime minister, with Nikol Pashinan -- the leader of massive street protests calling for change -- the only candidate officially nominated for the post.
On his way to a rally of his supporters in Yerevan on April 30, Pashinian told journalists that his top priority if he is elected would be "preparation of free and democratic elections" in Armenia. "I think this energy has transformed [into] something great in Armenia," he added, commenting on the peaceful protests that led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian on April 23.
At the rally, Pashinian told supporters to return to Yerevan's central Republic Square at 11 a.m. local time on May 1 to monitor the vote in parliament on large screens set up overnight. "The Armenian people will be celebrating their victory here," he said.
He urged supporters not to block traffic or to assemble outside the parliament building. The deadline for nominations expired at 6 p.m. local time on April 30 with Pashinian listed as the only candidate. He was nominated earlier in the day by his Yelk alliance. Pashinian.
42, already secured the support of all opposition factions in parliament. After meeting with HHK faction leader Vahram Baghdasarian on April 29, Pashinian told reporters there was no mood among members of the Republican Party "to thwart" the parliamentary vote. "There is a mood that a prime minister should be elected on May 1," he said, without elaborating.
Baghdasarian told reporters that the HHK would not hinder the election of Pashinian if the other factions in parliament support his candidacy. Meanwhile, the former ruling-coalition party that has seven seats in parliament, Dashnaktsutyun, announced that it will support Pashinian in the May 1 vote. Dashnaktsutyun's decision came after the HHK, which has 58 seats in the 105-seat parliament, decided on April 28 that it would not nominate its own candidate.
The second-largest parliamentary faction, the Tsarukian Alliance, also has pledged to support Pashinian. The Tsarukian Alliance controls 31 seats in parliament.
Pashinian's Yelk alliance has nine seats. That means Pashinian needs support from at least six members of the HHK to be elected.
HHK spokesman Eduard Sharmazanov said Republican lawmakers plan to consider all other candidates, then vote as a bloc. Pashinian has led weeks of street demonstrations in Armenia that resulted in the resignation of Serzh Sarkisian from the prime minister's post.

Депутаты национального собрания Армении (парламент) проголосовали против лидера протестов Никола Пашиняна, который выдвигался на пост премьер-министра.
На заседании присутствовали 103 депутата из 105. Для победы Пашиняну необходимо было получить как минимум 53 голоса. За его кандидатуру выступило 45 депутатов, против — 56.
Согласно Конституции Армении, если с первой попытки парламент не выбирает премьера, то на седьмой день должно быть проведено новое голосование с новыми кандидатами. На этот раз кандидатуру на пост премьера сможет выдвигать как минимум одна треть от общего числа депутатов (35) вне зависимости от их принадлежности к фракциям.
Если премьер-министр со второго раза не избирается большинством голосов от общего числа депутатов, парламент распускается. Исполняющим обязанности премьера до перевыборов парламента в этом случае останется Карен Карапетян.
У оппозиции остается два выхода: либо идти по конституционному пути, либо использовать неконституционные методы, что чревато негативными последствиями как для внутренней политики, так и для безопасности республики, констатирует армянский политолог Джони Меликян. Пашинян стал единственным кандидатом на пост премьера, выдвинутым от парламентских фракций на голосование 1 мая. Его выдвинул в качестве кандидата на пост премьера оппозиционный блок «Елк», который он возглавляет в парламенте.
О своем намерении стать «народным кандидатом» Пашинян объявил протестующим на одном из митингов в центре Еревана на площади Республики на прошлой неделе. Накануне голосования три фракции парламента — «Елк» (девять депутатов), блок «Процветающая Армения» Гагика Царукяна (31 депутат) и «Дашнакцутюн» (семь депутатов) объявили, что будут голосовать за Пашиняна.
Правящая Республиканская партия, у которой 58 мест в парламенте, пообещала не срывать голосование и обеспечить кворум. Незадолго до голосования глава фракции Республиканской партии Армении Ваграм Багдасарян заявил в парламенте, что вся фракция РПА проголосует против кандидатуры Пашиняна.
По словам Багдасаряна, «ультиматумами, шантажом политические решения не принимаются»​. Он уточнил, что партия «признает победу народного движения» и согласна с «с критикой социально-экономической ситуации в стране», однако они выступят против кандидатуры Пашиняна «​во избежание видимых угроз, большой волны нестабильности». Также спикер парламента, член РПА Ара Баблоян заявил, что «вся критика, которая прозвучала из уст оппозиции и правящей партии, дала понять, что Армения находится в политическом кризисе и его нужно решить мирным путем».

Opposition lawmaker Nikol Pashinyan failed to collect enough votes to become Armenia’s new prime minister after leading a massive campaign to oust the ruling authorities for several weeks. 102 lawmakers out of the 105 overall were attending the special sitting of the National Assembly who did not approve Pashinyan in the PM’s post after his predecessor was forced to resign amid protests across Armenia just one week after taking up the post.
Pashinyan needed more than half of all the votes - the support of 53 lawmakers - to secure the prime minister’s spot, but got only 45. A second vote will be held a week later, and the candidate needs to collect at least one third of the votes to win.
The National Assembly was set to elect a new prime minister on Tuesday after the former was ousted amid massive protests across Armenia just one week after taking up the post. An opposition leader and the founder and head of Civil Contract party, Pashinyan leads a street campaign against the ruling authorities, which has seen thousands of Armenians taking to the streets in massive protests. Former prime minister Serzh Sargsyan was forced to resign on April 23, and Pashinyan is now seeking the appointment as prime minister by the National Assembly of what he calls “the people’s candidate”, - i.e. himself - the formation of an interim government and snap parliamentary elections.

Leaders of Armenia's ruling party decamped to a ski resort as protesters in Yerevan have taken over central parts of the city in an attempt to disrupt longtime leader Serzh Sargsyan from continuing his rule. Protests, which began on Friday, April 13, with an estimated 4,500 people, continued the following day with crowds that appeared roughly similar in size.
Following the previous day's political speeches, Saturday's demonstrations had more of a carnival atmosphere: Traditional Armenian line dances were followed by hip-hop and pop music, interrupted from time to time with “Make a step, reject Serzh!” chants, which have become the slogan of these protests.
Teenagers, young urbanites, and middle-aged Yerevan residents could be seen dancing side by side. The demonstrations didn't go unnoticed by the ruling Republican Party of Armenia.
Protesters had vowed to block the party's headquarters on April 14, where leaders were going to gather to formally nominate Sargsyan – until a week previous, the country's president – as its candidate for prime minister. Instead, the Republicans abruptly canceled the meeting in the capital and convened in Tsaghkadzor, a ski resort some 35 miles away from Yerevan.
There, the faction unanimously voted to formally nominate Sargsyan for the PM’s office. On the same day, the ARF Dashnaksutyun Supreme Council of Armenia officially endorsed Serzh Sargsyan. ARF is Republican Party’s partner in the governing coalition, although it holds only seven seats in the National Assembly.
Being outfoxed by those in power, the opposition retreated to irony. “He was taken to Tsaghkadzor … Serzh Sargsyan was subjected to trafficking,” said Gyumri Municipal Council member Levon Barseghyan as he addressed protesters gathered in France Square, the central node of the demonstrations in Yerevan. Dropping the irony, he then called on all opposition forces to unite against Sargsyan’s prolonged rule.
“I guess they can sort out other issues later,” he said. Meanwhile, Nikol Pashinyan – the opposition MP who led the first day of demonstrations – kept making headlines. Joined by a group of protesters and the press, he stormed the headquarters of Armenian Public Radio on Alek Manukyan street in Yerevan. In the building lobby, they were met by police guards armed with assault rifles, and Pashinyan and supporters held up their hands in a sign of peaceful resistance. Security eventually let them through, and Pashinyan made it to the studio where he accused state broadcasters of ignoring the protests and demanded live airtime to call on Armenian citizens to join in.
About 100 protesters had stayed overnight on France Square after the first day of protests, and an equal number did the same Saturday night, some sleeping in tents, others gathered around fires. As of Sunday morning, the Armenian police had made no effort of disrupting demonstrations, in significant contrast to the police's handling of mass protests in the summers of 2015 and 2016, when they dispersed crowds violently.
The mood among the protesters appeared celebratory. “I like it here, and I’ll come tomorrow at 6:30 pm again,” wrote Marine Mamikonian, a young architect who moved from Russia to Yerevan last year, in a text conversation with Eurasianet on Saturday night.

The Armenian Revolutionary Federation-Dashnaksutyun (ARF-D) has expressed support to the ruling Republican Party’s decision nominate Serzh Sargsyan for the prime minister of Armenia. In a statement released on Saturday, the party’s Executive Body reaffirms its commitment to the strategic goals and political priorities enshrined in the May 11, 2017 coalition agreement.
The ARF-D approves the third president’s candidacy, citing the positive dynamics observed since the 2015 constitutional reforms. It expresses hope that the progress recorded signals their reasonable choice despite the still existing challenges and problems requiring an urgent solution.

The Armenian parliament has voted in support of Serzh Sargsyan, leader of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia, as prime minister on April 17. 77 MPs voted for his candidature, 17 against.
Now that Sargsyan has become the premier, the power levers will be concentrated in his hands again. His candidature was supported unanimously by the ruling party and the coalition party Dashnaktsutyun ARF. Allegedly opposition party Tsarukyan had a free vote, as a result, about ten members of the party gave their votes to Serzh Sargsyan.
A group of MPs from the Yelk (Way Out) Party voted against him. Sargsyan thanked the MPs who supported him and opposition MPs for criticism and said that the Republican Party and Dashnaktsutyun are no taking a great responsibility and are ready to drive the country through the way of dynamic development. He also spoke on protest action taking place in Yerevan for several days running.
“If you believe that seizure of government offices is a peaceful action, if you believe that the protesters must come to the parliament and draft laws instead of you, these are your approaches. If not, you must take the opposite side, the side of the law. Had the people supported unlawful actions, millions would have taken to the streets.
You all know how many people have done so,” Sargsyan said. He advised that MPs from the Yelk faction brought their colleague Nikol Pashinyan who is leading the protest from the streets to the parliament.

Radio Azatutyun.
Hundreds of people blocked more streets in the center of Yerevan on Monday on the fourth day of their nonstop demonstrations aimed at preventing former President Serzh Sarkisian from extending his rule. The protesters began the actions from a key street intersection that has been occupied by them since Friday. On Sunday, Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the protests, called for more large-scale “acts of civil disobedience” that would paralyze traffic in the Armenian capital. He also urged people to go on strike and boycott classes in universities. Pashinian vowed to try to disrupt Tuesday’s session of the Armenian parliament during which Sarkisian is due to be elected prime minister. He pleaded with Armenians to take part in his rallies in larger numbers. On Monday morning, Pashinian and a group of his supporters moved to nearby Marshal Bagramian Avenue leading to the parliament building, stopping public buses and cars in the process. Pashinian repeatedly apologized to commuters through a megaphone. “With this minor inconvenience we are trying to save you from a greater inconvenience called Serzh Sarkisian,” shouted the outspoken head of the opposition Civil Contract leader.
Lines of riot police stopped them from advancing further towards the National Assembly building. Pashinian told the small crowd to avoid any violent confrontations with the policemen.

At least 169 people were detained in Yerevan on Friday as the Armenian police tried to stop opposition supporters from again blocking streets in protest against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian.
The protests mainly involving young people resumed in various parts of the Armenian capital in the morning following opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s calls for a “total blockade” of streets as well as roads leading to the city. Hundreds of protesters led by Pashinian marched through Yerevan’s northern and western districts, urging Armenians to “reject Serzh” and again rally in central Republic Square in the evening. They were greeted by many bystanders and car drivers honking their horns in response to Pashinian’s appeal to “beep if you are against Serzh.” Many car horns reverberated throughout the city.
One of the city’s main bridges was blocked by three heavy trucks when the crowd reached early in the afternoon. The truck drivers left their vehicles parked there and joined the Pashinian-led march.
Meanwhile, smaller groups of Pashinian supporters tried to shut down traffic in several other parts of Yerevan. They were confronted by riot police keen to keep the roads open.
Dozens of protesters were detained as a result. Several hundred employees one of the country’s largest information technology firms, Synopsys Armenia, went on strike and blocked a major street adjacent to their company’s offices.
Police intervened to reopen Arshakuniats Avenue to traffic 30 minutes later. Synopsys engineers were joined by other protesters later in the afternoon. More than two hundred students marched unimpeded through downtown Yerevan in the meantime.
According to the police, the total number of detainees stood at 169 as of 2 p.m. local time. RFE/RL correspondents witnessed two dozen people bundled into police vans, personal cars and even public buses used by the police. Plainclothes policemen were also involved in the operation. More than a hundred protesters were detained and kept in police custody for several hours on Wednesday.

Angry demonstrations against Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s rule continued unabated in Yerevan on Saturday despite fresh mass detentions of their participants. Thousands of people again took to the streets of Armenia’s capital and other towns to demand that Sarkisian step down after having governed the county as president for ten years. Security forces again scrambled to stop them from blocking streets ahead of yet another big rally which the protest leader, Nikol Pashinian, planned to hold in the city’s central Republic Square in the evening.
A police spokesman said that at least 93 people were taken into police custody as of 4 p.m. local time. The detainees included Armen Grigorian, a civic activist actively involved in the protests. Amateur video posted on Facebook showed that he was detained inside a Yerevan café.
The police issued fresh statements on Saturday, saying that street blockades and other unsanctioned gatherings are illegal and can be dispersed. Neither these warnings nor the detentions seemed to contain the wave of protesters. Police detained several other drivers and impounded their cars as they repeatedly unblocked traffic through.
Mashtots Avenue, one of central Yerevan’s main arteries. Earlier in the day, traders working at a big retail market in the western Malatia district went on strike and marched to the city center to voice support for the unprecedented campaign for Sarkisian’s resignation. Several of them were detained in the process.
Meanwhile, Pashinian himself led a bigger crowd marching through the northern Nor Nork, Avan and Zeytun districts. He said “hundreds of thousands” of Armenians should rally on Republic Square at 7 p.m. The more than weeklong protests on Saturday spread to Echmiadzin, a small town about 15 kilometers west of Yerevan. More than a thousand people rallied there before heading to Yerevan on foot in the afternoon.
In an apparent bid to stop people from Echmiadzin and nearby villages from reaching the capital, government loyalists led by Arakel Movsisian, a controversial former parliamentarian, blocked a highway with heavy trucks commandeered by them. One of the truck drivers was dragged away and forced into a nearby compound on Movsisian’s orders. Police officers at the scene did not intervene.

Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian told the Armenian government on Thursday to reverse its controversial decision to grant him ownership of a mansion where he has lived since becoming president in 2008.
The house is part of a secluded government compound in Yerevan which has also been home to other high-ranking state officials. Former Presidents Levon Ter-Petrosian and Robert Kocharian, also lived in the compound with their family members while in office. They both were provided with free housing in other, more remote parts of Yerevan after leaving office.
The government formally approved the free privatization of the house at an April 2 meeting chaired by then Prime Minister Karen Karapetian. It gave no explanation for the decision strongly condemned by opposition leaders and Nikol Pashinian in particular. Pashinian pledged to nationalize the property in case of achieving regime change. Sarkisian defended the privatization on Tuesday at a session of the Armenian parliament which elected him prime minister.
But he made a different statement while holding the first cabinet meeting in his new capacity two days later. Pashinian seized up on this statement when he addressed later in the day thousands of anti-government protesters who again rallied in the city’s Republic Square, just a few dozen meters from the venue of the government meeting. “This means that Serzh Sarkisian already feels the breath of our democratic revolution,” he said.
Pashinian and several hundred protesters approached the government building during the cabinet session held amid unusually tight security. Hundreds of riot police were deployed around it.

Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian on Saturday urged Nikol Pashinian to urgently negotiate with him on ways of ending the political crisis in Armenia resulting from massive street protests against his rule organized by the opposition leader. Sarkisian said Armenia’s major political forces can contribute to such dialogue.
His Republican Party, the pro-government Armenian Revolutionary Federation and President Armen Sarkissian already made similar offers to Pashinian earlier this week. Pashinian responded to the premier’s appeal as he continued to stage anti-government rallies in Yerevan. He said Sarkisian’s resignation must be the main subject of any talks with the authorities.
Pashinian set the same conditions when he addressed tens of thousands of Armenians in the city’s Republic Square the previous night. He said the Armenian parliament must also form an interim government and call snap general elections. In his statement, Sarkisian said nothing about the precise subject of the proposed talks with Pashinian.
Instead, he warned of “unpredictable consequences” of the protests which entered their ninth day. They are “jeopardizing public order and damaging the complex and delicate fabric of the Armenian society,” he said.

President Armen Sarkissian met with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on Saturday during a surprise visit to Yerevan’s Republic Square where tens of thousands of people continued to demand Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation.
Sarkissian was greeted with “President, reject Serzh!” and “Nikol!” chants as he entered the sprawling square hours after renewing his calls for a dialogue between the government and Pashinian.
The two men spoke for 15 or so minutes there. Journalist were not allowed to approach them during the conversation.
Pashinian commented on their conversation when he addressed the large crowd later in the evening. He said he is open to negotiating with Serzh Sarkisian in a “neutral venue” but reiterated that he would only discuss “the terms” of the prime minister’s resignation.
Pashinian went on to urge even more Armenians to demonstrate across the country on Sunday “so that our positions are as strong as possible in this negotiation process.” Speaking to reporters after the speech, he said it is not yet clear when the talks could start.
According to the Tert.am news service, President Sarkissian met with the prime minister after his brief talk with Pashinian. Earlier in the day, the premier called on the protest leader to “immediately” start a dialogue with the government.
Pashinian first announced his conditions for the dialogue the previous night. He said Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation must be followed by fresh parliamentary elections. The spokesman for the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK), Eduard Sharmazanov, criticized Pashinian’s stance as “emotional and unconstructive” on Saturday. “As regards the resignation demand, I am once again stating that Armenia’s prime minister was elected in accordance with Armenia’s constitution, by a free expression of the will of Armenia’s free and proud parliamentarians,” he told RFE/RL’s Armenian service (Azatutyun.am).

Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian announced late on Saturday that he and Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian have agreed to meet the next morning and try to reach an agreement that would end continuing anti-government demonstrations held across Armenia.
Pashinian said the talks will start at 10 a.m. on Sunday in the Marriott Armenia hotel located on Yerevan’s Republic Square, the main site of his daily demonstrations against Sarkisian’s rule. He said he has been informed that Sarkisian is ready to discuss his demands for the premier to step down. The announcement came shortly after President Armen Sarkissian held separate meetings with the two men locked in the intensifying standoff.

Премьер-министр Армении Серж Саргсян 22 апреля встретился с лидером протестов в Ереване, главой оппозиционного движения «Елк» Николом Пашиняном. Их переговоры продлились около трех минут.
Запись встречи опубликовал в фейсбуке канал «Настоящее время». Переговоры прошли в ереванской гостинице «Армения Мариотт» в присутствии журналистов, сообщает издание Panarmenian.
Пашинян заявил, что пришел обсуждать условия отставки Саргсяна и бескровной передачи власти. Премьер-министр заметил, что это не диалог, а «ультиматум и шантаж по отношению к законным властям».
«Вы не представляете ситуацию в стране, она не такая, какой вы ее знали 15-20 дней назад. <…> Власть в
Армении перешла в руки народа», — ответил Пашинян. Вскоре после этого Саргсян ушел со встречи с лидером оппозиции. В Армении с 13 апреля продолжаются акции против избрания бывшего президента страны Сержа Саргсяна премьер-министром.
Протестующие блокировали правительственные здания, а позже начали перекрывать улицы Еревана. За время митингов
несколько сотен протестующих были задержаны; позже многих из них отпустили из полиции. Кроме того, 16 апреля в ходе столкновений протестующих с полицейскими получили ранения более 40 человек, в том числе Никол Пашинян.
Саргсян призвал Пашиняна «сесть за стол переговоров» во избежание «безвозвратных потерь». Лидер протестов ответил, что протестующие «готовы обсудить только вопрос о его отставке».
Армения в 2015 году начала переход от президентской к парламентской форме правления, в результате чего были расширены полномочия премьер-министра, а президент стал церемониальной фигурой. Несмотря на акции протеста, 17 апреля парламент Армении избрал Саргсяна премьер-министром. До этого он был президентом страны, занимая высший пост с 2008 по 2018 год.

YEREVAN -- Tens of thousands of Armenian antigovernment demonstrators have defied a police warning and gathered on Yerevan's central Republic Square after officers detained protest leader Nikol Pashinian.
Pashinian was detained during a demonstration in the Armenian capital, shortly after failed talks between him and Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Two other lawmakers were detained along with more than 230 demonstrators following 10 days of mass rallies against an alleged power grab by Sarkisian. The three lawmakers' current whereabouts are unclear.
Pashinian was confronted by masked police officers and other security personnel as he led a crowd of several hundred supporters marching to the city's southern Erebuni district. The police fired stun grenades to stop the march.
Police later tried to disperse crowds gathered in various parts of Yerevan and there were clashes reported between officers and some protesters. Police said they detained 232 protesters by 5:30 p.m. local time(1330 GMT/UTC).
The Health Ministry said seven people were taken to hospital for problems related to the demonstrations. More protesters were detained in the evening on the central Republic Square.
WATCH: Armenian security forces in Yerevan detained dozens of protesters who gathered on the city's central Republic Square on April 22.
The Prosecutor-General's Office earlier said that Parshinian and two other detained opposition lawmakers, Sasun Mikaelian and Ararat Mirzoian, will be held for 72 hours. It said in a statement that the three organized unsanctioned rallies and urged supporters to block streets and entrances to state buildings. It claimed that participants of those gatherings assaulted police officers.
The statement did not say whether there will be criminal charges against the three lawmakers, who are protected by parliamentary immunity. Their prosecution would require parliament to remove their parliamentary immunity.
Meanwhile, thousands of Parshinian's supporters marched in the capital chanting his name. The march was led by four priests in clerical outfits.
"I came here to discuss your resignation," Pashinian told the prime minister as the meeting began in Yerevan's Marriott Hotel. "This is not a dialogue, this is blackmail," Sarkisian said before walking out of the meeting room where members of the media were present. The meeting lasted only three minutes, reporters said.
Before walking out, Sarkisian called on Pashinian, whose political alliance, he said, had "only six or seven percent of the vote" in parliamentary elections, not to speak on behalf of the people and not to issue ultimatums to the government. Pashinian claimed Sarkisian had lost touch with reality and urged his supporters to turn out in larger numbers for peaceful civil-disobedience protests across the country.
He insisted that as long as the protests were peaceful the police should not break them up. Sarkisian had said on April 21 that he sought a "political dialogue" with the protest leader..
"I am deeply concerned about the inner-political developments. In order to avoid irreparable losses, I urge Nikol Pashinian to sit at the political dialogue and negotiations table.
It should be done immediately," he said in a statement posted on his website. Serzh Sarkisian was named prime minister after his 10-year stint as president ended two weeks ago. Opponents says the shift effectively makes Serzh Sarkisian a leader for life. In a 2015 referendum, backed by Serzh Sarkisian, Armenia transitioned to a new system of government that reduces the presidency's power and bolsters the prime minister's role.
Hundreds have been detained in Yerevan in recent days as police seek to stop opposition supporters from blocking streets and paralyzing the capital. Protesters also rallied in Armenia's second-largest city, Gyumri and in Vanadzor, the third-largest city in the country of about 3 million people. Several protesters were detained in Vanadzor on April 21.
"We are concerned over reports of violence against journalists and demonstrators; we emphasize the need for those responsible for violence against police or demonstrators to be held accountable under the law," it added. "All those who have been detained while exercising their fundamental right of assembly in accordance with the law must be released immediately," Maja Kocijancic added. The OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) urged the Armenian authorities to protect and ensure the right to freedom of peaceful assembly in the country.
Serzh Sarkisian stepped down as president when Armen Sarkisian -- his handpicked successor -- was sworn in on April 9 after being elected by parliament. On April 17, parliament elected Serzh Sarkisian as prime minister -- a post that is more powerful than the presidency following the referendum.

Армянская полиция применила спецсредства и начала массовые задержания участников митинга оппозиции в Ереване, сообщает портал «Новости-Армения». ​Среди задержанных оказался лидер оппозиционной парламентской фракции «Елк», глава партии «Гражданский договор» Никол Пашинян.
Кроме того, задержан депутат парламента Сасун Микаелян, который призвал митингующих после задержания Пашиняна оставаться на местах. Силовая акция началась после провала переговоров между бывшим президентом и вновь назначенным премьер-министром Армении Сержем Саргсяном и Пашиняном, которые проходили в гостинице «Мариотт».
Саргсян прервал встречу и вышел. По его словам, оппозиционная фракция «Елк» набрала «7–8% голосов и не имеет права говорить от имени народа».
Саргсян отметил, что переговоры с оппозицией по факту являются «ультиматумом, шантажом государства и законных властей». Он также посоветовал Пашиняну «вернуться в законное поле и пределы логичных действий».
После неудачных переговоров оппозиция начала шествие в Ереване, однако, как передает «Интерфакс», полиция применила светошумовые гранаты, блокировала шествие и начала задержания. Акции протеста в
Ереване начались 13 апреля. Демонстранты выступают против назначения бывшего президента Армении Сержа Саргсяна главой правительства.
17 апреля, в день официального назначения Саргсяна на пост главы кабмина, Пашинян объявил «бархатную, народную и мирную революцию» в Армении. 20 апреля в Ереване были задержаны 233 демонстранта.
На следующий день на митинге задержали еще 11 человек.

Сотрудники правоохранительных органов задержали в
Ереване 232 демонстранта, которые выступают против избрания премьер-министром Армении бывшего президента страны Сержа Саргсяна. Об этом сообщает агентство News.аm со ссылкой
на пресс-службу полиции. Акции протеста проходят в
Ереване с 13 апреля. После того как 22 апреля переговоры между Саргсяном и депутатом парламента Армении Николом Пашиняном провалились, в Ереване началось оппозиционное шествие. Власти страны начали силовую акцию против участников шествия, сообщалось о 192 задержанных.
Также по обвинению в организации и проведении незаконных массовых протестов были задержаны: Никол Пашинян и депутаты Сасун Микаэлян и Арарат Мирзоян. Местонахождение Пашиняна пока неизвестно, а Арарат Мирзоян и Сасун Микаэлян доставлены в отделение полиции района Шенгавит, отмечает News.аm.
В результате беспорядков пострадали семь человек, они госпитализированы. В общей сложности в больницах Еревана лечатся десять пострадавших в ходе протестов.

Massive rallies against Armenian Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian intensified on Sunday evening, with tens of thousands of people filling Yerevan’s largest square in the absence of Nikol Pashinian, the protest leader arrested earlier in the day.
The arrests of Pashinian and several of his close associates led other, younger members of his Civil Contract party to organize and address what was the biggest rally held since the start of the daily protests on April 13. Lena Nazarian, the sole parliament deputy from Civil Contract not detained yet, read out an online statement by Pashinian calling on Armenians to continue to demand Sarkisian’s resignation with peaceful acts of “civil disobedience.” Pashinian also urged them to avoid any violent clashes with security forces.
The crowd repeatedly burst into “Nikol!” chants. “Everything must remain peaceful,” said Ruben Rubinian, a Civil Contract activist who moderated the rally.
He said people must continue to block streets, hold marches and sit-ins, boycott classes and rally at Republic Square on a daily basis. Citing safety concerns, Rubinian also made clear that all kinds of protest must end at 10 p.m.
“He who stays and acts on the street after 10 o’clock has nothing to do with our movement,” he said. Sarkisian, who took over as prime minister on April 17 after serving as president for ten years, rejected the demands for his resignation at a televised meeting with her husband held in the morning.
Pashinian was detained more than an hour later. As of Sunday night, the authorities refused to specify where Pashinian is being held. Opposition lawmakers tried unsuccessfully to visit him in custody.
They were only allowed to see two other Civil Contract lawmakers detained in the morning. Throughout the day the Armenian police again described the protests as “illegal” and threatened to disperse them.
Both the United States and the European Union urged the authorities in Yerevan to avoid using force against peaceful protesters. First Deputy Prime Minister Karen Karapetian said it is still “not too late” to start such a dialogue.
“I think it wouldn’t hurt if political forces gathered [for talks,]” he told reporters. At the same time, Karapetian defended Pashinian’s arrest and accused the opposition leader of intransigence. He also dismissed Pashinian’s calls for fresh parliamentary elections, saying that the last legislative polls held in April 2017 were legitimate. Virtually all major opposition forces, including businessman Gagik Tsarukian’s Prosperous Armenia Party, strongly condemned the arrest of Pashinian and other protest organizers and demanded their immediate release.

A day after the detention of protest leader Nikol Pashinian, thousands of antigovernment demonstrators have once again been taking to the streets of Yerevan, calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. Today marks the 11th day of mass rallies against Sarkisian's shift to the newly powerful prime minister's post, which put him back at the country's helm less than two weeks after his 10-year stint as president ended.

A group of Armenian soldiers joined anti-government protests in Yerevan on Monday, the Armenian Defense Ministry said, promising they would be harshly punished according to the law as hundreds of opposition supporters took to the streets of Armenia's capital amid rising political turmoil. Images of hundreds of men wearing military uniforms marching with protesters had earlier appeared on a live stream of the demonstrations being broadcast on the Internet.
The defense ministry condemned soldiers who took part in protests and said it will take "harsh measures" against the group of soldiers participating. A group of uniformed former soldiers and veterans who fought in Nagorny Karabakh --an Azerbaijani territory occupied by Armenians in a conflict that broke out at the end of the Soviet era -- marched with the protesters to parliament.
On the 11th day of demonstrations in the ex-Soviet country, young men in small groups briefly blocked roads in Yerevan and shouted slogans such as "Join us!" and "Victory" and the name of protest leader Nikol Pashinyan as drivers beeped their horns in support. Whereabouts of Nikol Pashinian remains unknown after his talks with President Armen Sarkisian failed, followed by the protest leader's arrest.
Hundreds of students, some medical students in white coats, also marched arm-in-arm through the streets, holding Armenian flags. Tens of thousands also rallied in Yerevan over the weekend against the rule of Prime Minister Serzh Sargsyan, the country's former president.
As a lawmaker, Pashinian is protected by parliamentary immunity and cannot be arrested without the approval of fellow MPs. Under Armenian law, MPs can only be arrested without this approval when they are caught committing a crime, in which case they can be held for up to a maximum of 72 hours.
The speaker of Armenia's parliament, the National Assembly, met Pashinyan and other detained politicians overnight, parliament's spokesman told AFP, without giving details. Speaker Ara Babloyan was quoted as saying that he had urged Pashinyan and the others "to take part in real talks".

Минобороны Армении подтвердило, что часть военнослужащих присоединились к участникам антиправительственных протестов в Ереване.
В заявлении Министерства обороны Армении говорится об участии в акции военнослужащих миротворческой бригады, которые покинули расположение своей части без разрешения. В заявлении подчеркивается, что ведомство «решительно осуждает военнослужащих миротворческой бригады», присоединившихся к протестам.
В Минобороны напомнили, что солдаты ограничены в правах на свободу собрания в связи со своим статусом. Их участие в беспорядках может быть наказано по закону. Министр обороны Армении Виген Саркисян не исключил вероятность того, что к подавлению беспорядков могут быть привлечены воинские подразделения.
Для этого необходимо ввести в стране режим чрезвычайной ситуации. «Положения разрабатываются в спокойных условиях на случай неспокойной ситуации.
Будем надеяться, что это нам не понадобится долгие годы», — цитирует его интернет-издание News.am. Министр обороны Армении также сообщил, что на фоне протестов в
Ереване вооруженные силы Азербайджана концентрируют живую силу и технику у границы с Нагорным Карабахом. Саркисян предположил, что Баку может воспользоваться нестабильностью в стране в своих интересах.
«Противник следит за процессами внутри нашего государства. Не надо обладать узкоспециальными знаниями, чтобы понять, что внутренняя дестабилизация открывает путь для их действий. Вчерашнее заявление не открытие в этом плане.
Но мы обязаны напомнить обществу об этой угрозе», — сказал он. РБК направил запрос в Министерство обороны Армении. Участие военных в протестах подтверждают и видео, которые очевидцы выкладывают в социальных сетях.
Судя по роликам, по улицам столицы Армении идут группы мужчин в военной форме. Оружия у них в руках не видно.
PanARMENIAN сообщает, что среди людей в форме есть как военнослужащие-контрактники, так и бывшие военнослужащие, участники конфликта в Нагорном Карабахе. Издание утверждает, что военные «встали впереди шествия в качестве живого щита».
​В Ереване шествие оппозиции носит мирный характер, полиция обеспечивает безопасность его участников, сообщила РБК сотрудница пресс-службы полиции Армении Айкуи Бабаджанян. «В нескольких районах города наблюдается нарушение общественного порядка, по состоянию на 12:00 задержаны 33 человека, в том числе за попытку перекрыть улицы и препятствование сотрудникам полиции», — пояснила Бабаджанян.
В отделе информации администрации Ширакской области (областной центр — Гюмри) сообщили РБК, что шествие в Гюмри мирное и все спокойно.
«Задержанных на сегодня нет, улицы не перекрыты, точного числа участников у нас нет», — пояснили в администрации. Акции протеста против назначения экс-президента Сержа Саргсяна премьером продолжаются в Армении с 13 апреля.
Саргсян с 1993 года занимал разные посты в правительстве Армении, а с 2008 по 2018-й возглавлял страну. 17 апреля 2018 года, после ухода с поста президента, парламент вновь назначил его премьером. Это решение не было принято оппозицией: глава парламентского блока «Елк» Никол Пашинян объявил о начале «бархатной революции», после чего призвал сторонников выйти на улицы города и заблокировать административные здания.
В стране начались массовые протесты. Численность прошедшего накануне, 22 апреля, митинга в Ереване местные СМИ оценили в 160 тыс. человек.
В тот же день полиция задержала в столице около 300 участников протестных акций. На проспекте Арцаха в столице Армении прошли столкновения сотрудников правоохранительных органов с демонстрантами. Полиция была вынуждена применить светошумовые гранаты.
Антиправительственные протесты поддержали учащиеся некоторых вузов Армении. К демонстрантам присоединились студенты Ереванского государственного университета, Ереванского государственного университета языков и социальных наук им. В.Брюсова и Ереванского государственного медицинского университета.
23 апреля они объявили о начале забастовки. Полиция Армении в воскресенье задержала лидера протестов, главу оппозиционной фракции «Елк» Никола Пашиняна. При задержании Пашинян призывал силовиков «сложить оружие и присоединиться к народу».
В Москве исключили вероятность вмешательства в конфликт. Официальную позицию Кремля в связи с ситуацией в Армении высказал пресс-секретарь президента Дмитрий Песков.
Он подчеркнул, что все происходящее является «исключительно внутренним делом». Вместе с тем в Кремле очень внимательно наблюдают за развитием событий, добавил Песков.

After days of protests, Armenia’s 63 years old prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan, unexpectedly stepped down, an unusual move for entrenched leaders in the region facing the people’s wrath.
Sargsyan’s ouster in this post-Soviet republic of 3 million didn’t stabilize the country, with demonstrations continuing over fears that the ruling party is unwilling to cede the power. Soon after the parliament elects a prime minister, which will be on May 1, Armenia will hold snap parliamentary elections.
This week, we talked to Alexander Iskandaryan, director of the Yerevan-based Caucasus Institute, about the Armenian protests and the country’s future. Iskandaryan:
The legitimacy of his presidency and then-prime minister was very low. Sargsyan became president in 2008, the same year the economic crisis hit the world.
There were a lot of economic and social problems in Armenia. At the start, the situation was very bad, then the economy stagnated.
The social situation wasn’t brilliant. In those years the conflict with Nagorno-Karabakh became worse with four days of escalation in 2016.
On top of that, there were the ‘usual’ problems that post-Soviet countries face, like corruption, monopolism, and oligarchy. All this did not make Sargsyan’s and his party very popular, even in the years before the protests.
The trigger, however, was that Sargsyan said that he would not become prime minister after the constitutional changes of 2015. But when he did, it crushed the little bit of legitimacy there was left. It was a political mistake to think it would be possible to rule without any legitimacy.
Then just a technical thing was needed: a popular person to come out to the streets. Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was really talented in that. Iskandaryan: One of the reasons I believe he and his government didn’t is 2008. Sargsyan did not want to finish his political career or begin his presidency with violence.
Another reason is that the situation was extremely risky this time. Two days after Pashinyan was arrested, the protests decentralized.
There were a lot of people on the street but no leader. It was like a volcano with more and more demonstrations every day. It started with youth and students, but later older people weighed in, too.
The rallies did not just take place in Yerevan but had spread to the provinces as well. Iskandaryan: It is chaos here.
There are still thousands of people on the streets and roads remain blocked. I don’t think that Pashinyan will compromise on any of the Republican’s proposals.
He wants to take the prime minister’s chair and maybe the parliament, too. If you use all the non-Republicans in the parliament, which is possible, you need ten more voices to create a majority.
I am not sure, but this might work. If not, new elections. Iskandaryan: I think that new elections will be organized, I am just not sure when.
If everything goes very fast, it could mean we have elections in late May. The main problem is, however, that the leadership of the protests was extremely personified. Pashinyan’s political party consists of several dozens of persons.
In order to organize new elections in such a short time, you need human resources. The situation in Yerevan can change by the hour, and it is the question of how long it can be without real policy working.
If Pashinyan wants to replace the political system that was constructed by the Republicans, he will need people, programs, political parties, institutions and a shadow cabinet. This is a problem. It is early to say if the country will change for the better because of this unrest.
Fieke Snijder and Mahir Zeynalov host leading figures from around the world every week to provide an in-depth overview of one of the top news events of the week. Enjoy these series?

Citing the political crisis in Armenia, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) on Wednesday announced its withdrawal from the country’s governing coalition and called for fresh parliamentary elections.
The party’s leadership also urged the Armenian parliament to elect an interim prime minister “enjoying the people’s trust.” The premier’s main task must be to defuse the crisis and hold “fully democratic” snap elections, it said in a statement.
The statement did not specify whether Dashnaktsutyun parliamentarians are ready to vote for the appointment of opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as prime minister. Dashnaktsutyun has been represented in the government by three ministers in line with a power-sharing deal signed in February 2016 with then President Serzh Sarkisian. It won 7 seats in the 105-member parliament elected in April 2017. Sarkisian stepped down on April 23 amid massive street protests in Yerevan and other parts of the country organized by Pashinian.

The head of the EU Delegation to Armenia on Tuesday hailed the success in the recent civic disobedience campaign in the country, promising a more intensive process towards the ratification of CEPA (Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement. According to Ambassador Piotr Switalski, the developments gave a clear understanding that the country attaches a real importance to democracy, rule of law, and fight against corruption. The diplomat expressed their mission's support to the universal values, as well as willingness to assist the country in ovecoming the current political crisis. In his words, the 11-day campaign proved that the Armenian citizens appreciate the values underlying the agreement.
The diplomat added that they now have a “very ambitious project” to work on. He also pledged further efforts by the Union towards stepping up the mutual cooperation.

U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills on Tuesday praised the Armenian police and anti-government protesters led by Nikol Pashinian for avoiding bloodshed during their 11-day standoff that led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. He noted the “professionalism” of Armenian security forces shown during the sustained protests against Sarkisian, while urging the authorities to investigate instances of violence against some protesters and journalists. “This is a great moment for the Armenian people and the spirit of democracy in this country,” stressed the envoy. Mills also commended Sarkisian, saying that the former president acted like a “real leader” and listened to “the voice of the Armenian people” when he stepped down on Monday. Karen Karapetian, who took over as Armenia’s acting prime minister, is due to start crisis talks with Pashinian on Wednesday. The opposition leader has publicly voiced a number of political demands, including the holding of snap general elections. “We look forward to working with Mr. Karapetian, the acting prime minister, in the days ahead,” said Mills. All sides should resume their dialogue to “agree on the steps forward,” he added.

Участники акций протеста в
Ереване перекрыли дорогу из города в международный аэропорт Звартноц, передает корреспондент РБК с места событий. По словам местной жительницы Ринэ Бадалян, многие дороги в
Ереване перекрыты демонстрантами. «Настрой
[демонстрантов] боевой. Многие полицейские переходят к народу», — отметила она. Как рассказал РБК журналист и политический обозреватель Айк Халатян, полицейских много около здания правительства.
«Пока что проходит шествие в городе. Попытки [задержать демонстрантов] были.
Но после того, как дорогу разблокировали, чтобы полицейская машина подошла, отпустили задержанных», — добавил он. В ереванском управлении полиции в беседе с РБК
назвали не соответствующими действительности заявления о присоединении полицейских к протестующим. «Все заявления о том, что полицейские покинули свои места и присоединились к бастующим, — ложь. Все [полицейские] находятся на своих рабочих местах», — подчеркнули в управлении.
Утром 25 апреля в Ереване возобновился митинг за отставку правительства и президента страны Армена Саркисяна. Десятки тысяч протестующих заполнили площадь Республики, куда начали стягиваться сотрудники правоохранительных органов со спецтехникой.
Митинги в Ереване начались 13 апреля.
Изначально протестующие выступали против назначения экс-президента страны Сержа Саргсяна главой правительства. Однако 17 апреля армянский парламент избрал его новым премьер-министром. В связи с этим лидер оппозиционной партии «Гражданский договор»
Пашинян объявил «бархатную революцию». После этого в Ереване и других армянских городах продолжились акции протеста. 23 апреля Саргсян подал в отставку. Оппозиционер Пашинян в тот же день объявил, что готов возглавить правительство Армении до выборов.

The Armenian parliament voted to elect opposition leader Nikol Pashinian prime minister on Tuesday nearly one month after he launched sustained anti-government protests that led to resignation of Armenia’s longtime leader, Serzh Sarkisian.
Pashinian was backed by 59 of the 105 members of the National Assembly. They included 13 lawmakers representing Sarkisian’s Republican Party of Armenia (HHK).
Forty-two other HHK deputies voted against him. The HHK’s parliamentary leader, Vahram Baghdasarian, made clear just before the vote that his party still has serious doubts about Pashinian’s ability to govern Armenia but will nonetheless help him become prime minister in order to restore “political stability” in the country.
“Mr. Pashinian, you will be elected prime minister … God willing, you will dispel the lingering concerns of the HHK faction,” said Baghdasarian.
“I will serve the people of Armenia and the Republic of Armenia,” Pashinian declared immediately after the vote which sparked jubilant scenes in Yerevan’s Republic Square where tens of thousands of his supporters gathered to celebrate his widely anticipated rise to power. Addressing the parliament before the vote, Pashinian pledged to implement “very serious reforms” that would democratize Armenia, strengthen the rule of law and radically improve the domestic business environmental.
Pashinian made clear at the same time that he will not wage “vendettas” against members of the HHK and the previous governments and will preclude any “redistribution” of economic assets and properties. Also, he again ruled out major changes in Armenian foreign policy.
In particular, he reiterated that Armenia will remain part of the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). “We regard military cooperation with Russia as an important factor of ensuing Armenia’s security,” he said, adding he will also strive to deepen Armenia’s ties with the European Union and the United States.
Pashinian further reaffirmed his plans to push for fresh parliamentary elections. But he gave no possible dates for the conduct of such polls.
It remains to be seen whether the HHK, which continues to control the majority of seats in the parliament, will agree to them. The idea of fresh elections is also supported by businessman Gagik Tsarukian’s alliance and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation. Both political groups have backed the Pashinian-led street protests against Sarkisian’s attempt to extend his rule, which began in Yerevan on April 13 and intensified dramatically in the following weeks.
Sarkisian, who served as Armenia’s president from 2008-2018, stepped down as prime minister on April 23. Pashinian declined to shed light on the composition of his cabinet when he spoke to reporters moments after being elected prime minister. He said his ministers will be chosen “as a result of discussions” with his allies and other political groups.
The rally, which also featured speeches by two prominent artists supporting the protest movement, was followed by a live concert. Pashinian, is a former journalist who edited Armenia’s best-selling daily newspaper, “Haykakan Zhamanak,” from 1999-2012. He also has a long history of political activism. He first ran for the parliament in 2007 as the top candidate of an opposition group that challenged then President Robert Kocharian. The group called Impeachment failed to win any parliament seats.
Pashinian went on to play a major role in a broad-based opposition movement launched by former President Levon Ter-Petrosian, the main opposition candidate in a hotly disputed presidential election held in February 2008. The vote marred by reports of serious fraud formalized the handover of power from Kocharian to Serzh Sarkisian. Pashinian went into hiding following the deadly suppression on March 1-2, 2008 of post-election protests in Yerevan.
He surrendered to law-enforcement authorities in July 2009 and was subsequently tried and sentenced to seven years in prison on charges stemming from the unrest. Like other Ter-Petrosian allies, he was released from jail in May 2011 under a general amnesty declared by the Sarkisian administration.
A year later Pashinian was elected to the National Assembly on the ticket of Ter-Petrosian’s Armenian National Congress (HAK). He subsequently fell out with the ex-president and set up his own party, Civil Contract. Civil Contract and two other opposition parties, Bright Armenia and Republic, set up an alliance called Yelk (Way Out) ahead of Armenia’s last parliamentary elections held in April 2017.
Yelk won 9 parliament seats. Both Bright Armenia and Republic refused to support Pashinian when he embarked on his campaign aimed at preventing Sarkisian from becoming prime minister and thus extending his decade-long rule.
They said that he will fail to attract large crowds. Pashinian began the unexpectedly successful campaign in Armenia second largest city of Gyumri on March 31. He returned to Yerevan on foot on April 13 after walking more than 200 kilometers through the country’s northern and central regions in an effort to drum up popular support for his cause.

His face is printed on T-shirts, flags and posters. Sara Akopyan is wearing such a shirt; she is in the square with her colleagues from a real estate agency. "It's a general strike today and we are not working, this strike is by far the biggest one that swept Armenia," she says.

Shortly after, news broke that Mr Sargsyan had resigned and it was as if a firework of joy had exploded in the square. Many here say it is a victory for the whole nation, that the people stood up for democracy and won. And it came on the eve of April 24, which Armenians worldwide mark as Remembrance Day for the victims of mass killings of Armenians at the turn of the 20th century in Ottoman Turkey.

YEREVAN (Reuters) - Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan was elected Armenia’s prime minister on Tuesday, capping a peaceful revolution driven by weeks of mass protests against corruption and cronyism in the ex-Soviet republic. Moscow, which has a military base in Armenia, is wary of an uncontrolled change of power which would pull the country out of its orbit, but Pashinyan has offered assurances that he will not break with the Kremlin.
Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Pashinyan on his election. The election of Pashinyan, a former newspaper editor who spent time in prison for fomenting unrest, marks a dramatic rupture with the cadre of rulers who have run Armenia since the late 1990s. Minutes after parliament voted to make him prime minister, Pashinyan traveled to a square in the capital, Yerevan, where tens of thousands of cheering supporters, many wearing T-shirts bearing his portrait, waited to greet him. Throughout the protests, Pashinyan had dressed in a camouflage T-shirt and military-style cap, an outfit that became his trademark, but on Tuesday he changed into a suit and tie. Pashinyan, born in 1975, spearheaded a protest movement that first forced veteran leader Serzh Sarksyan to step down as prime minister and then pressured the ruling party to abandon attempts to block his election as prime minister, the country’s most powerful post.
In a vote in parliament on Tuesday, 59 lawmakers backed Pashinyan’s candidacy, including some from the ruling Republican Party, with 42 voting against. In Yerevan’s Republic Square, Pashinyan’s supporters watched the voting on huge television screens.
When the result was shown, there were chants of “Nikol!”, white doves were released into the air and people hugged and kissed each other. “We won! We made history today!” said Gurgen Simonyan, 22, a student in the crowd.
Pashinyan’s protest movement was sparked when Sarksyan, barred by the constitution from seeking another term as president, became prime minister instead. Many Armenians saw that as a cynical ploy by Sarskyan to extend his hold on power.
Armenia is a country of about three million people nestled in mountains between Iran, Turkey, Georgia and Azerbaijan. Since it emerged as an independent state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Armenia, a majority Christian country, has been locked in a territorial conflict with mainly-Muslim Azerbaijan, and under economic blockade from Turkey. Its isolation led it to depend heavily on former colonial ruler Moscow.
Putin has in the past resisted popular revolts in ex-Soviet states, particular in Georgia and Ukraine, viewing them as a ploy by Washington to encroach on Moscow’s sphere of influence. But throughout Armenia’s wave of protests, Moscow has remained publicly neutral, and Pashinyan has consistently said he viewed Moscow as a vital ally. He said on Tuesday Armenia would stay in a regional collective security organization headed by Russia and that he hoped for a meeting with Putin. The Kremlin said Putin sent Pashinyan a congratulatory telegram. “I hope your activities as head of the government will help further strengthen the ties of friendship and alliance between our countries,” Putin said in the message. Thomas de Waal, a specialist on the region with Carnegie Europe, a think tank, said with the Armenian uprising, both Yerevan and Moscow had learned a new script.
Pashinyan faces tough challenges. The civil service and security apparatus are dominated by allies of his ousted predecessor. He has said his first step will be to hold an early parliamentary election. In the meantime, he said he would carry out root-and-branch reforms to cut out graft and cronyism. He must also reckon with a parliament where the Republican Party, allied to Sarskyan, holds a majority of seats and is skeptical about his revolution. Vahram Baghdasaryan, head of the Republican Party in parliament, said for the sake of unity it was backing Pashinyan for prime minister but it had concerns about his fitness to run the country. “I hope we are mistaken,” said Baghdasaryan, an ally of Sarskyan.

The Armenian parliament will meet on May 1 to elect the country’s new prime minister after two weeks of sustained street protests which forced the previous premier, Serzh Sarkisian, to step down. Sarkisian’s successor is expected to serve on an interim basis, until the holding of snap parliamentary elections now demanded by most Armenian political factions.
Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of the massive protests, has been pressing the National Assembly controlled by Sarkisian’s Republican Party (HHK) to appoint him to that post. Pashinian claimed on Wednesday that some HHK parliamentarians are ready to vote for him.
In an overnight statement, the HHK’s parliamentary faction offered to “discuss any issues with all sides without preconditions.” The statement followed its members’ meeting with Sarkisian and acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian.
Pashinian refused to comment on the HHK statement as he again led thousands of supporters marching in Yerevan on Thursday. He also declined a comment on his late-night meeting with Gagik Tsarukian, a businessman leading the second largest parliamentary force, the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK).
The BHK on Wednesday told its members to take to the streets and join Pashinian’s movement. But it has yet to officially confirm whether its parliament deputies will vote to elect Pashinian prime minister.
While continuing to rally supporters, the 42-year-old opposition leader urged Armenians to stop blocking streets in the capital for now. He argued that the daily blockades are increasingly abused by unruly car drivers, resulting in traffic chaos. Sarkissian called on the parliamentary forces to jointly end the political crisis which was triggered by Serzh Sarkisian’s controversial decision to extend his decade-long rule.

Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian on Thursday offered to negotiate with acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian, while insisting that the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) must let him become interim premier. Pashinian ruled out any “compromise with the corrupt and anti-democratic government system” as he addressed thousands of supporters in Yerevan. “We expect all factions in the National Assembly to unconditionally recognize the victory of the people,” he said.
Pashinian went on to declare that he is ready to meet Karapetian to discuss these demands on Friday. But he said the meeting can only be held in the presence of the press.
The two men had already been scheduled to meet on Tuesday morning, the day after massive street demonstrations led by Pashinian forced Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian to resign. Those talks were cancelled after Karapetian rejected preconditions set by Pashinian.
The HHK on Wednesday expressed readiness to discuss “any issue” with Pashinian “without preconditions.” The party’s chief spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, reaffirmed this on Thursday.
Sharmazanov declined to specify concessions which the HHK is ready to make to the Pashinian-led opposition. Nor would he say whether it could install him as interim premier and hold snap parliamentary elections. Sharmazanov also denied Pashinian’s earlier claims that Karapetian has no mandate to negotiate on behalf of the HHK.
“Karen Karapetian has the full support of our team,” he said. The HHK, which has until now been headed by Serzh Sarkisian, controls 58 of the 105 seats in Armenia’s parliament. The National Assembly is scheduled to meet and elect the next prime minister on May 1.
So far only the opposition Yelk alliance, of which Pashinian is a leading member, has explicitly backed his demands. Yelk holds 9 parliament seats.
The Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) of businessman Gagik Tsarukian is represented in the parliament by 31 deputies. The BHK voiced support for Pashinian’s popular movement on Wednesday.
Tsarukian and Pashinian met later in the day. A senior BHK representative, Nair Zohrabian, declined to say on Thursday whether the BHK lawmakers will vote for Pashinian on May 1, saying that negotiations with the protest leader are “going on.” “I can only say that Tsarukian’s bloc will take the people’s voice into account when making a decision,” she said.
Pashinian also announced that he will hold a rally in Gyumri on Friday evening and take his campaign to Vanadzor the following day. The demonstrations in Yerevan, will resume on Sunday, he said. Earlier in the day, Pashinian urged supporters to stop blocking streets in the capital. He argued that the daily blockades are increasingly abused by unruly car drivers, resulting in traffic chaos.

Acting Prime Minister Karen Karapetian again avoided meeting with Nikol Pashinian on Friday, saying that the opposition leader is refusing to consider any compromise agreements to resolve the grave political crisis in Armenia.
Pashinian proposed the meeting on Thursday after two weeks of massive demonstrations in Yerevan and other parts of the country which have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. He said the talks must focus only on a full handover of power to his opposition movement and be held in the presence of journalists.
“That is why the acting prime minister regards as unpromising his participation in ‘negotiations’ which stand no chance of finding solutions,” Araratian added in a statement. Karapetian already rejected these and other preconditions set by Pashinian when he refused a planned meeting with the protest leader earlier this week.
The 42-year-old leader of the opposition Civil Contract party insisted that the talks with the government must be televised. “It’s very important to be transparent in these processes,” he said.
Pashinian warned that the Armenian parliament, in which the ruling HHK has a clear majority, will deepen the crisis if it refuses to elect him interim prime minister at an emergency session slated for May 1. The handover of power would reflect “the will of the people,” he said.
“If a Republican is elected prime minister, this crisis will not be resolved because we will continue our peaceful demonstrations and try to explain to the HHK and Karen Karapetian … that they don’t understand the political situation in Armenia,” said Pashinian. Accordingly, he urged supporters to “flood the streets and squares” and also surround the parliament building in Yerevan on May 1.
In a potentially significant development, Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday phoned Karapetian and called for a settlement that would be based on “the results of the legitimate parliamentary elections held in April 2017.” The elections were won by the HHK.
The opposition leader was due to hold a rally in Gyumri later in the day, and proceed to Vanadzor on Saturday. He told supporters on Thursday to suspend their “civil disobedience” actions in Yerevan for two days. Also on Thursday, Pashinian met with President Armen Sarkissian and leaders of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun), which pulled out of the governing coalition following Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation.
A Dashnaktsutyun leader, Arsen Hambardzumian, described the meeting as “useful” but did not elaborate. Earlier, Pashinian also held talks Gagik Tsarukian, a millionaire businessman leading the Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK), the second largest in the parliament. He confirmed on Friday that neither Tsarukian nor the Dashnaktsutyun leadership has so far promised to vote for his appointment as prime minister. “I hope that Dashnaktsutyun and Tsarukian’s bloc will clarify their positions and announce who their deputies are going to vote for on May1,” he said.

The dramatic anti-government protests that erupted in Yerevan two weeks ago have transformed Armenia and should help it become a “real democratic state,” President Armen Sarkissian said on Thursday.
In a written address to the nation issued earlier in the day, Sarkissian spoke of a “new Armenia” emerging as a result of the nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. He called on the Armenian parliamentary forces to jointly end the continuing political crisis.
“After several days of demonstrations, now we are going towards a democratic process, and the democratic process will lead us to the highest democratic institution, which is the parliament of the Republic of Armenia,” the president told RFE/RL’s Armenians service (Azatutyun.am). “If we will manage this properly, if all problems which were raised by the demonstrations will be eventually resolved in accordance with the constitution and inside the parliament, then we all will be proud that we are on the real path to making Armenia a real democratic state,” he said.
Sarkissian also warned that Armenia “cannot afford” continued political instability given the unresolved Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and national security challenges. “We must never forget that the state structures must remain firm,” he said.
Sarkissian pledged to strive for a “new Armenia” able to meet challenges of the modern world when he was sworn in as the country’s new and largely ceremonial president on April 9. The 64-year-old former scholar, who had lived in Britain for nearly three decades, is the first Armenian president elected by the parliament, rather than popular vote. His predecessors enjoyed sweeping powers under the previous, presidential system of government.

The parliamentary faction of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) will not vote to elect opposition leader Nikol Pashinian the country’s new prime minister next week, a senior HHK lawmaker said on Friday. Gevorg Kostanian, the chairman of the parliament committee on legal affairs, insisted that Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian’s resignation on Monday did not mark “regime change” in Armenia.
Asked whether HHK lawmakers will vote for Pashinian when the parliament picks the new premier on May 1, Kostanian said: “I rule that out because I can’t imagine such a possibility.” They will back “a candidate who will be chosen by the HHK faction,” he said.
Another senior HHK lawmaker, Vahram Baghdasarian, reaffirmed his party’s readiness to discuss “any issue” with Pashinian. “But we are not going to succumb to ultimatums and coercion,” he stressed. The remarks came as Pashinian continued to press the HHK majority in the National Assembly and other parliamentary factions to install him as interim prime minister and call fresh elections.
Pashinian said earlier on Friday that hundreds of thousands of people should take to the streets of Yerevan and blockade the parliament building during the May 1 session. “We are following the constitutional path, and if this is his constitutional path, then let him do that,” commented Baghdasarian. The HHK controls 58 seats in the 105-member parliament, compared with 9 seats held by the opposition Yelk alliance.
Yelk has officially nominated Pashinian for prime minister. None of the other parliamentary parties has officially endorsed the opposition leader. Those are the Tsarukian Bloc and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun).
Dashnaktsutyun, which pulled out of the government following Sarkisian’s resignation, on Friday urged the parliamentary forces to “agree on a joint candidate enjoying the trust of the people” by May 1. They would also determine by consensus the composition of the new government and its policy program, it said. The party did not say who that candidate might be.

Opposition leader Nikol Pashinian’s chances of becoming Armenia’s prime minister increased late on Saturday after he was effectively endorsed by businessman Gagik Tsarukian and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun).
Tsarukian, who leads the second largest faction in the Armenian parliament, said he and his allies will back “the people’s candidate” when the National Assembly elects the next premier on Tuesday. Tsarukian also spoke of his “very positive” attitude towards the protest movement that was launched by Pashinian two weeks ago against former President Serzh Sarkisian’s attempt to extend his rule.
The unprecedented movement is driven by legitimate grievances of the country’s population, he said. Tsarukian’s political alliance holds 31 seats in Armenia’s 105-member parliament, compared with 9 seats held by the Yelk bloc, of which Pashinian is a leading member. Dashnaktsutyun, which control 7 parliament seats, also signaled support for Pashinian’s candidacy.
“Dashnaktsutyun has no final decision yet, but we believe that in the context of our statement made yesterday we will support Nikol Pashinian’s candidacy in case of its nomination,” a leader of the party, Arsen Hambardzumian, told RFE/RL’s Armenian service (Azatutyun.am). Dashnaktsutyun pulled out of Armenia’s governing coalition after Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian was forced to resign on April 23.

A leading member of the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) said on Sunday that it will not try to prevent a joint candidate of the three other parliamentary forces from becoming the country’s new prime minister.
Vahram Baghdasarian, who leads the HHK faction in the parliament, made this clear after meeting with opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the main organizer of nationwide protests that have led to the resignation of Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian. “If the three other political forces represented in the National Assembly have a joint candidate … we will not block the candidate whom they will call the people’s candidate,” Baghdasarian told reporters. HHK deputies will not boycott Tuesday’s session of the parliament which is due to elect the next premier, he said.
Pashinian said he received the same assurances from Baghdasarian at their meeting. He said the HHK faction, which controls 58 of the 105 parliament seats, is “predisposed” towards letting him become prime minister. The position announced by Baghdasarian still needs to be formalized by the largest parliamentary faction.
Pashinian said that he will meet with HHK lawmakers later in the day or Monday. Pashinian’s candidacy has been endorsed not only by his Yelk alliance but also Gagik Tsarukian’s bloc and the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun). The three forces hold a total of 47 parliament seats, meaning that the opposition leader needs to be also backed by at least six HHK parliamentarians if he is to succeed Sarkisian as prime minister.
Pashinian reaffirmed on Saturday his desire to serve as interim prime minister who would organize fresh general elections. But he said he is ready to discuss possible dates for such polls with the HHK and the other parliamentary forces.

Bowing to pressure from opposition leader Nikol Pashinian, the ruling Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) announced on Saturday that it will not nominate Karen Karapetian or any other candidate for the vacant post of the country’s prime minister. The Armenian parliament is scheduled to choose the next premier on May 1, one week after Prime Minister Serzh Sarkisian stepped down amid massive street protests organized by Pashinian. “We will not nominate a candidate,” the HHK spokesman, Eduard Sharmazanov, told a news conference.
“Who will we vote for? That depends on who will be nominated and what programs they will come up with,” he said.
Sharmazanov attributed the decision to “new political realities.” He said the HHK is anxious to avoid continued instability in Armenia which would be fraught with serious threats to its national security.
So far only Pashinian has expressed his intention to run for prime minister. He has urged Armenians to continue to demonstrate in support of his candidacy. The HHK holds 58 seats in Armenia’s 105-member parliament.
The parliament’s second largest faction, a bloc led by businessman Gagik Tsarukian, has 31 deputies. Tsarukian has yet to announce whether he will be seeking the post of prime minister. He was due to make a statement to that effect later on Saturday.
Pashinian declined to comment further when he was approached by an RFE/RL correspondent while leading an unusually large crowd marching through Vanadzor. He also would not say how he would react Tsarukian’s possible decision to enter the fray.
The 42-year-old former journalist met with cheering crowds on his way to Vanadzor. His motorcade made regular stops in towns and villages en route the city of 86,000 people. He was greeted by thousands of jubilant adults, children, and elderly people a day after a similar tour took him to Gyumri, Armenia's second largest city.
Earlier in the day, a senior HHK lawmaker, Samvel Farmanian, urged Pashinian to meet with the party’s parliamentary faction and “explain why we should vote for you.” “Come for a simple, human talk,” he wrote on Facebook.
Pashinian appeared to respond to this appeal when he campaigned in his hometown, Ijevan, later in the morning. He said he is prepared meet with not only HHK deputies but also all other members of the National Assembly. Meanwhile, President Armen Sarkissian kept trying to defuse the grave political crisis through consultations with various political stakeholders. Sarkissian met with Pashinian on Thursday and went on to hold similar talks with Serzh Sarkisian and acting Prime Minister Karapetian.
The presidential press service described the meetings as “constructive.” “The president of the republic hopes that with joint efforts it will be possible to find a mutually acceptable solution,” it said.

People cheer at a gathering in Yerevan, Armenia, to hear protest leader Nikol Pashinian speak on the eve of his expected election as prime minister.
For weeks, Armenians attempted the unthinkable — to bring down their government through peaceful mass protests. On Monday night, they returned to the capital’s central Republic Square, this time to celebrate their impending victory. Armenia’s parliament is expected to elect opposition leader Nikol Pashinian as prime minister Tuesday, nearly a month after the 42-year-old led hundreds of thousands of Armenians in a civil disobedience movement.
The nonviolent demonstrations began in April and at times paralyzed the capital, Yerevan, with road blockages, labor strikes and street dance parties. The demonstrations were unprecedented in size and scope for this small, mountainous republic tucked in between Georgia and Turkey, and Iran and Azerbaijan. Frustrated youths fed up with the lack of economic opportunities under the decade-long rule of former President Serzh Sargsyan dominated the protest movement, and quickly galvanized generations across the country.
The movement was most remarkable for its unexpected outcome: the peaceful ousting of a pro-Russia ruling elite in a former Soviet space. Armenia’s movement has been unusual also for its lack of a geopolitical element, unlike in Georgia and Ukraine in recent years. In the latter two nations’ so-called color revolutions — the Rose Revolution in Georgia and the Orange Revolution in Ukraine — Russia’s interests came in conflict with those of the West, particularly the United States, which sought to bring both of those former Soviet states closer to the European Union.
In Armenia’s case, the protest leaders took an Armenia-centric stance. Pashinian promised early on that, if elected, he would not change Yerevan’s relationship with Moscow or the West.
Armenia, a former Soviet republic that gained independence in 1991, is tied closely to Russia through trade, subsidized gas and military dependence. Russian soldiers guard Armenia’s borders with Turkey and Iran. Russia’s Gazprom energy giant supplies Yerevan with cheap gas, and Armenia is a member of the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, a trade bloc that also includes Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan.
Last year, Armenia signed an agreement with the European Union that stops short of entrance requirements to the economic bloc, but provides financial assistance for adopting certain reforms. The agreement was signed under intense scrutiny from Moscow, which was reassured only after Yerevan agreed to enter the Eurasian Economic Union first.
Pashinian, a former journalist turned opposition member of parliament, seemed an unlikely prime minister six months ago. But in the last month, he has proved to be a master of populist street movements and “the right man at the right time,” said Richard Giragosian, the director of the Yerevan-based Regional Studies Center, a think tank. Pashinian, has tapped into and mobilized Armenia’s frustrated, younger generation, who have grown up in a post-Soviet republic whose potential for democracy and prosperity have fizzled under a political elite that catered to the country’s wealthy oligarch class. “Pashinian has a unique combination that’s rare in Armenia and, in fact, rare in the post-Soviet space: a combination of charisma and tactical expertise,” Giragosian said.
Sargsyan was elected president in 2008 in a vote contested by his opponent, whom Pashinian supported. Violent street clashes protesting the vote left 10 dead.
Sargsyan went on to win a second, five-year term. Term limits prevented him from running again, but constitutional reforms bolstered the position of prime minster starting in 2018.
Sargsyan’s Republican Party, eager to retain its political and economic control over the country, nominated Sargsyan, 63, to the post, essentially paving the way for him to rule indefinitely. The decision was not taken lightly in Armenia, where economic growth has benefited only the top 5% of the country’s 2.9 million people. Critics of Sargsyan and his party said cronyism and corruption keep the oligarch class — which is closely connected to the ruling party — wealthy, while the rest of the country suffers. About 30% of Armenians live below the poverty line.
Pashinian began a cross-country march on April 1 in protest of the prolonged rule of Sargsyan. Beginning in Gyumri, Armenia’s second-largest city, he and a group of followers and members of his opposition party, Civil Contract, walked the 75 miles to Yerevan 13 days later, just three days before parliament was scheduled to elect Sargsyan as prime minister. When they arrived in Yerevan, the city was already galvanized.
Hundreds of demonstrators camped out on the French Square near the opera house and not far from the parliament building. Protesters blocked a main intersection for four days to call attention to the movement.
Despite the growing demonstrations, the Republican Party defiantly elected Sargsyan prime minister on April 17. Pashinian immediately called for mass acts of nonviolent, civil disobedience across the city. Demonstrators blocked metro entrances, squares and central streets of the capital. Groups of demonstrators danced in the streets and blocked roads by pulling benches into intersections, paralyzing the center of the capital and launching the beginning of what became known as Armenia’s nonviolent Velvet Revolution. “Pashinian was right, I was wrong,” he added.
Last Tuesday, parliament voted again, but the Republican Party refused to elect Pashinian. About 250,000 protesters poured into Republic Square, the largest demonstration in Armenia’s 27 years of post-Soviet independence.
The capital was again paralyzed by roadblocks and protesters the following day, until the Republican Party agreed to support Pashinian’s nomination as prime minister in a new vote this Tuesday. “We will now stop our actions for a while and rest,” Pashinian told the crowd that night.
A week later, Armenians are still feeling euphoric from the momentum of their nonviolent revolution. Several thousand turned out in Republic Square for a celebratory concert Monday night and waited to hear Pashinian speak on the eve of the crucial vote. Earlier in the day, the speaker for the Republican Party announced that its majority in parliament would back Pashinian’s election. “This man will go down in Armenian history!”
he shouted over the loudspeakers blaring rock music. If elected, Pashinian has said he will form a temporary government to begin addressing Armenia’s economic and political crisis, and call for parliamentary elections in the fall. Until then, the Republican Party will still hold the majority of seats in the parliament, possibly creating significant hurdles for the new government. Ayres is a special correspondent.

Exactly a month ago, Nikol Pashinyan was walking from village to village across Armenia in a desperate protest against a power grab by the country’s prime minister, Serzh Sargsyan.
On Tuesday Pashinyan, a fiery political orator who has spent the past decade in street politics, was himself elected as prime minister in a 59-42 vote in parliament, capping weeks of peaceful mass protests. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, was among the first to congratulate him. Pashinyan has offered assurances that he will not break with the Kremlin.
It has been an unlikely rise to power in the post-Soviet republic of about 3 million for the former newspaper editor. Before April, the ruling Republican party’s stranglehold on Armenian politics had appeared intact, with Sargsyan newly installed as prime minister after term limits forced him to step down as president after 10 years. But governance changes that in tandem bolstered the prime minister’s office led to accusations that Sargsyan had manipulated the constitution to cling to power.
Pashinyan and other activists brought out tens of thousands of people on to the streets for protests that paralysed the capital, Yerevan. Sargsyan resigned on 23 April in a stunning concession to the opposition.
Pashinyan, who had been detained and then released from jail during the protests, called for snap elections to choose a new “people’s prime minister”. Supporters say Pashinyan, who was also imprisoned after opposition rallies in 2008 turned deadly, is among history’s great peaceful revolutionaries.
“You can absolutely compare him with historical figures like Gandhi and Nelson Mandela,” said Eduard Aghajanyan, a city council member from Pashinyan’s Civil Contract party, and one of Pashinyan’s young, western-educated advisers. It has been a dangerous road for Pashinyan.
He was expelled from university in 1995 for his political activities, and faced libel charges as the editor-in-chief of Haykakan Zhamanak in 2000. His car was blown up in an apparent assassination attempt in 2004, and in 2008 he spent months in hiding after being accused of instigating political protests that ended with 10 people dead. He was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2010 but was released the following year under an amnesty.
He has publicly fallen out with other opposition leaders such as the former president Levon Ter-Petrosyan. In private, detractors say Pashinyan is a novice when it comes to working in government and unwilling to compromise. He entered parliament in 2016 as a member of a coalition of opposition parties.
“The main question is whether Nikol Pashinyan the revolutionary can become Nikol Pashinyan the prime minister,” said Emil Danielyan, a journalist and political analyst in Yerevan. He has a flair for the theatrical. Last month Pashinyan told Sargsyan in face-to-face discussions that he had “come to discuss your resignation”.
Sargsyan called the demand “political blackmail” and walked out of negotiations. Pashinyan has however shown a deft political touch over the past month, running a gauntlet of thorny political questions including whether Armenia should maintain close ties with Russia and whether there should be a purge of former ruling party officials and a criminal trial into the deaths of protesters in 2008. In an interview with the Guardian during the protests, Pashinyan said dark political forces had been trying to derail Armenia’s peaceful revolution. His aides said Karen Karapetyan, the prime minister from September 2016 until last month, and who is close to Russia, had sought backroom deals to derail a vote last week for Pashinyan to become PM, which he lost.
He spoke of plans to further open Armenia to foreign business and break the control over certain industries held by businessmen close to the previous regime. Still, he and his supporters have largely skirted policy discussions in favour of rallying cries for reform in the poor country of about 3 million people, which borders Turkey and Iran and is locked in a simmering territorial conflict with another neighbour, Azerbaijan.
There is a touch of the populist in Pashinyan – he has donned a camouflage T-shirt for some speeches, but returned to a suit for negotiations with other parties. “He is not a populist. He is popular,” said Ararat Mirzoyan, a fellow member of Civil Contract, who was arrested with Pashinyan last month.

Listen to this story. Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android Your browser does not support the element.
IT LOOKS more like a carnival than a revolution. Instead of burning tyres and mounting barricades, young people wrap themselves in Armenian flags, dance in the streets and block the roads by playing volleyball or simply sitting on carpets. On the morning of a general strike, a five-year-old boy drove a toy car with an Armenian flag through an empty street.
In the evening, vast construction trucks loaded with students drove and hooted through Yerevan. But behind the street theatre lies a velvet revolution led by a young generation of Armenians against an old guard who have controlled the country since its independence in 1991. Their victory is not yet complete, but their anticipation of success seems likely to be self-fulfilling.
On May 1st, in an attempt to hold out, the ruling party blocked the election as prime minister by parliament of Nikol Pashinian, the leader of a three-week-old protest that has galvanised the entire former Soviet republic of some 3m people. A dozen pro-government MPs desperately tried to discredit him as a dangerous anti-Russia candidate, unacceptable to the Kremlin, which has a tight economic and military grip over Armenia.
But Moscow was silent, confident of its strategic hold on Armenia and unwilling to back the losing side. That evening Mr Pashinian addressed tens of thousands of people who filled in the main Republic square.
“Beloved nation, proud citizens of Armenia. People in parliament have lost the sense of reality. They don’t understand that 250,000 people who came onto the streets in Armenia have already won. Power in Armenia belongs to you—and not to them.”
His words sparked jubilation. To prove his point and his strength, Mr Pashinian called a general strike paralysing the city and the country.
A few hours later, on May 2nd, the ruling party appeared to cave in, implying it would back him in next week’s parliamentary session. It may still spring a nasty surprise, but is unlikely to regain control over the country—at least not for now.
Mr Pashinian has led a textbook velvet revolution, made possible by textbook mistakes by the government, which tried to hang onto power after losing its legitimacy. Mr Pashinian managed to personify Armenians’ resentment against a corrupt elite. Donning Che Guevara-style fatigues, he went around the country on foot, preaching non-violent protest.
By doing so, he decentralised the revolution, making it virtually impossible for the authorities to quash. In the capital he appealed to students and young people with no memories of the Soviet past, but a strong sense of dignity and justice. Mr Pashinian’s brief detention doubled the size of the crowds in the streets, leading the prime minister to resign last week and perhaps making Mr Pashinian unstoppable.
Crucially, the challenger avoided any subject such as ideology or geopolitics that could divide the country and antagonise Russia. Unlike the revolutions in Georgia in 2003 and in Ukraine in 2004 and again in 2014, which were fought under the slogans of joining Europe and NATO, Mr Pashinian talked strictly about internal matters like corruption and justice, which everyone can agree on. He made populist promises and pledged that Armenia will remain with Russia’s security arrangements.
Not a single European flag was waved in Yerevan and no slogan pronounced Armenia’s European destiny. But the fear of mentioning Russia-related subjects only highlighted Russia’s importance.
While Moscow clearly distrusts revolutionaries, it has so far decided not to interfere in Armenia, hoping that inflated expectations and lack of money will do their own damage. “It has been the smartest Kremlin policy I’ve seen for years,” says Alexander Iskandaryan, the head of the Caucasus Institute, a think-tank.
Armen Grigoryan, one of the revolution’s leaders says, “All the stars were aligned, and even Saturn moved into the same position it was in 1988.” That was when protests in Armenia provided the first rumblings of the storm that was to bring down the Soviet empire three years later.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Outrage over allegations of political cronyism.
Mass protests in the capital. Young people demanding a say in their country's future.
A leader's sudden departure from power. No, this is Armenia in 2018.
For Moscow the term is, at best, merely dirty words, describing mass demonstrations that topple incumbent political forces. At worst, it is a strategic weapon allegedly used by the West to foment regime change, not only in the former Soviet Union, but also the Middle East, leading to instability and an undermining of Russian interests.
So far, there are plenty of echoes between what happened in Armenia over the past week and the Rose Revolution in Georgia in 2003, or the Orange Revolution in Ukraine in 2004, or the Euromaidan demonstrations that led to a revolution in Ukraine in 2014. In his victorious speech given hours after Sarkisian announced his resignation, opposition protest leader Nikol Pashinian explicitly used the language of revolution, but also pushed back against insinuations of foreign interference.
"It's a pure Armenian velvet revolution," the 42-year-old Pashinian told a crowd of supporters, referring to the Velvet Revolution of 1989 that ended decades of Communist Party control in Czechoslovakia. Armenia has been convulsed by upheaval in the past, most recently in 2015 during what some called #ElectricYerevan, a series of demonstrations against a stiff hike in power tariffs.
Those featured young people as well and sporadic violence from riot police. They ended with the government backing down on an immediate tariff increase.
This time, the protests have also featured a predominantly young crowd, but the demonstrations also swelled into the tens of thousands -- among the largest public outpourings since Armenia's independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Richard Kauzlarich, a former U.S. ambassador to neighboring Azerbaijan, says the size of the crowds, along with the lack of violence and the presence of soldiers appearing alongside some demonstrators, set these protests apart from previous ones. "[But] politics in Armenia doesn't always take place on the visible side of the curtain, there's a lot going on behind the scenes that we can't see," he adds.
Simon Saradzhyan, director of the Russia Matters project at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, points out that despite his resignation as prime minister, Sarkisian's political party -- the Republican Party of Armenia (HHK) -- maintains its dominance of parliament. And Sarkisian remains the head of the HHK. "This does not qualify as a revolution, in my opinion, but if they try to nominate someone whom the general public doesn't like, and the protests continued, then you could say this would be a revolutionary moment," Saradzhyan says.
Armenia remains a poor country, hobbled by severe trade restrictions from Turkey along Armenia's western border imposed in solidarity with Azerbaijan, which sits to Armenia's east. Its economy is hugely dependent on remissions from its far-flung diaspora in Russia, Western Europe, and the United States, as well as trade with Russia, more broadly.
Iran is also an important trading partner. "Armenia [is] a classic case of a society so unfree
[that] the public was alienated and angry, but free enough to let them protest. Not Russia," Thomas de Waal, a longtime Caucasus watcher with Carnegie Europe and author of the book Black Garden: Armenia And Azerbaijan Through Peace And War, wrote in a series of tweets.
"Note also there is no systemic opposition in Armenia. This is a young urban crowd [of people] who don't belong to [political] parties, are barely represented in parliament," he wrote.
Several experts contrasted Sarkisian's apparently voluntary decision to resign with events in Ukraine in 2014, when then-President Viktor Yanukovych resisted not weeks, but months, of mass protests, before violent clashes in the capital finally led him to flee. The Kremlin refers to those events as a military coup. In addition to Ukraine and Georgia, Kyrgyzstan also experienced upheaval in 2005 that drove longtime leader Askar Akaev from power.
Those events, plus Middle East uprisings that came to be known as the Arab Spring, led Russian military strategists to develop a theory that the mass protests were a form of warfare engineered by Washington and NATO. The chairman of Russia's military General Staff was the leading proponent of this theory, which gained public attention about a year before the 2014 Euromaidan protests in Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin himself accused then-U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton of being behind mass protests in Moscow in 2011 and 2013 that followed parliamentary and later presidential elections; both of which were criticized as deeply flawed and undemocratic.
Alex Melikishvili, principal research analyst for Europe/CIS forecasting at IHS Markit Country Risk, says he was also reluctant to label the Armenian upheaval as a "color revolution" since Pashinian shunned the use of that term and tried to emphasize the "genuinely grassroots and internal character" of the protests. "This, in part, can be explained by the understandable fear that even the slightest hint of some sort of foreign involvement would invite unwanted attention from the Russian authorities, who have a lot at stake in Armenia for obvious geopolitical reasons," he tells RFE/RL.
At least for now, that observation has been borne out by Moscow's initial reaction in the hours after Sarkisian's resignation, which was either viewed as subdued or largely supportive of the events in Armenia. "A people that has the ability to maintain respect for one another and not divide even in the most difficult moments in its history -- despite categorical differences -- is a mighty people," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook.
"Armenia, Russia is always with you," she added. Senior Russian lawmakers also backed Sarkisian's decision to step down.
"Russia has been a strategic ally to Armenia over the course of many years, and there is nothing to suggest that this would change," Leonid Slutsky, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in Russia's lower house of parliament, was quoted by Interfax as saying. Sergei Tsekov, a member of the International Relations Committee in Russia's upper house of parliament, said Armenia "under any government will seek cooperation with Russia." Armenians "understand that Russia is Yerevan's eternal and reliable friend," Tsekov was quoted by the state-run RIA Novosti news agency as saying.
Saradzhyan points out that Sarkisian's temporary successor, Karen Karapetian, used to work for an energy company tied to the Russian natural-gas giant Gazprom. That, he says, likely meant Moscow was less rattled by the upheaval for the moment. Still other observers say that even though Armenia's foreign policy toward Russia was unlikely to change under Karapetian, the optics of street protests leading to a change in political leadership would remain unnerving to Moscow.

Armenian police have detained the opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan as protests against the former president Serzh Sarksyan’s appointment as prime minister entered a tenth day. Police said Pashinyan was forcibly taken from a rally on Sunday, shortly after Sarksyan rejected demands to step down, as riot police and demonstrators clashed in the capital. Nearly 200 protesters were also detained.
Demonstrators accuse Sarksyan of clinging to power following 10 years as president. Tens of thousands of opponents have marched through Yerevan in recent days, blocking streets in the city centre and staging sit-ins. Under a revised constitution approved in a 2015 referendum, most state powers in the small, former Soviet state have shifted to the prime minister and the presidency has become a largely ceremonial post. Opponents say the shift effectively makes Sargsyan Armenia’s leader for life. Sarksyan met Pashinyan, the opposition politician leading the protests, in Yerevan on Sunday but left talks a few minutes after their talks began.
“This is not talks, not a dialogue. It’s just an ultimatum, blackmail of the state, of the legitimate authorities,” Sarksyan told Pashinyan.
He said the opposition had failed to learn the lesson of 1 March, referring to a protest rally after his re-election in 2008 when 10 people were killed in clashes with police. “No one has dared and will dare speak to us in the language of threats.
I am telling you, you have no understanding of the situation in the country. The situation is different to the one you knew 15-20 days ago,” Pashinyan told Sarksyan. “The situation in Armenia has changed, you don’t have the power of which you are told. In Armenia, the power has passed to the people,” he said. Pashinyan then vowed to step up pressure on Sarksyan to force him to resign.
He was detained hours after the encounter. “Despite repeated calls to stop illegal rallies, Pashinyan continued leading a demonstration,” police said in a statement, adding that he and two other opposition MPs were forcibly taken from the site as riot police dispersed the rally. They dismissed reports that Pashinyan had been arrested. Sasun Mikaelyan, an opposition MP, earlier told journalists that Pashinyan had been arrested.
“People must liberate Nikol,” he said. As an MP, Pashinyan is protected by a parliamentary immunityand cannot be arrested without its approval, according to the constitution. Opposition supporters have criticised 63-year-old Sarksyan over poverty, corruption and the influence of powerful oligarchs in the landlocked South Caucasus nation of 2.9 million people.
More than 70 people were arrested on Saturday, according to authorities, including two people suspected of preparing bombs. In the evening, about 50,000 demonstrators gathered in the capital’s central Republic Square.

В Ереване возобновились акции протеста оппозиции против действующей власти.
Как сообщает «Интерфакс», сторонники движения «Елк» перекрывают главные улицы армянской столицы, создавая автомобильные пробки. Полиция начала стягивать силы и спецтехнику в центр города. Утром 25 апреля должны были состояться переговоры между лидером «Елк» Николом Пашиняном и исполняющим обязанности премьер-министра Армении Кареном Карапетяном, представляющим правящую Республиканскую партию.
Встреча была сорвана, поскольку лидер оппозиции в одностороннем порядке выдвинул новые требования по ее проведению и повестке, заявил Карапетян. Ранее Никол Пашинян объявил, что Республиканская партия больше не может иметь власти в Армении, а на пост премьера должен быть назначен «кандидат от народа», после чего должны быть проведены внеочередные парламентские выборы. В свою очередь Карапетян заявил, что новый премьер-министр может быть избран исключительно в рамках закона, а не на улице.
С середины апреля в Армении проходили массовые акции протеста против назначения новым премьер-министром страны Сержа Саргсяна, который до этого 10 лет был президентом.
23 апреля Саргсян согласился уйти в отставку. Исполняющим обязанности премьера был назначен его соратник по партии Карен Карапетян. 25 апреля к протестам движения «Елк» присоединились оппозиционные партии «Процветающая Армения» и «Наследие». Они призвали своих сторонников выйти на улицы Еревана и «быть рядом с народом».

Pashinyan then talked about his conversation with President Armen Sargsyan, saying that the latter had yet again repeated the authorities’ negotiation offer. “I said that I would not negotiate in any state building and offered instead to hold the talks at, for example the Mariott Hotel.” The oppositionist went ahead to ask for the demonstrators’ permission to negotiate on their behalf and received an excited chant of “Yes!” in response.
“I want you to know that I’ve told Sargsyan that I would only discuss the terms for Serzh Sargsyan’s resignation,” Pashinyan assured the crowd. 7:30pm: Newly-appointed Armenian president Armen Sargsyan had arrived at the Republic Square to negotiate with Nikol Pashinyan. The two had a quick talk in the center of the square; Sargsyan had asked reporters to turn off their microphones. After an about 15-minute talk, Pashinyan opened the way for Sargsyan and helped him leave the area.
On his way to his car, Sargsyan refused to answer reporters’ questions and said he would invite them all to his office for a press conference. According to some reports from the square, Pashinyan told Sargsyan he was willing only to discuss the terms for Serzh Sargsyan’s resignation. 7։10pm:
Human rights defender Artur Sakunts reports that prominent Gyumri journalist Levon Barseghyan has been detained from the city’s bus station. According to reports from lawyers, opposition activist David Sanasaryan, one of the leaders of the Reject Serzh movement, has also been missing for over three hours.
As of 5:30pm, 102 citizens have been detained from various parts of Yerevan. 6pm: An hour before the 7pm rally, tens of thousands of demonstrators have already gathered at the Republic Square.
Nikol Pashinyan addressed the dozens of police officers who had surrounded the stage area, saying that they should leave the area and not comply with unlawful orders. “Serzh Sargsyan has to go; there’s no other option,” he said. 5:40
A group of women, some holding their kids in their arms and others pushing them in stollers, are marching on Nalbandyan street towards the Republic Square where Nikol Pashinyan is expected to hold the day-end 7pm rally. 5։05pm: Rural resident have since early morning been blocking highways in various provinces. In Tavush province, in particular, Noyemberyan villagers held a march and blocked traffic several times on the road leading to Yerevan.
They were subsequently joined by residents of other villagers. A part of the group then moved towards the Baghratashen checkpoint and occupied the area briefly.
Aragatsotn province Kosh villagers, in turn, blocked the main Kosh-Yerevan road. A convoy of 10 cars is travelling to Yerevan from the village of Ujan in the same province. 4։56pm: Former Republican MP Arakel Movsisyan has been spotted ordering truck drivers to block the Etzhmiadzin-Yerevan highway to prevent demonstrators from marching to the capital. In conversation with Azatutyun.am, Movsisyan said he did not regret his actions one bit.
4։52pm: A female driver named Silva was just detained from the Mashtots-Tumanyan intersection for parking her car in the center of the roadway in support of the demonstrators in the area. Silva has taken her car keys with her to the police station. Several other women remained inside the parked car, among them a pregnant woman.
Demonstrators have brought them food and water. 4։50pm: Civil Contract party member, Nor Kyanq (New Life) village head Garik Sargsyan wrote on his Facebook page that he, along with his family members and a taxi driver, was being “held hostage” in the parking of the Artashat police department. 4:40pm: A group of demonstrators had blocked traffic on Margaryan street.
With no police officers around, a dozen young men in civilian clothes began fighting the demonstrators and pushing them away from the roadway. An eyewitness told Epress.am that the men in civilian had links with Republican Party MP Galust Sahakyan’s son, Arman Sahakyan. The men uninhibitedly left the area after the arrival of police officers.
4։05pm: Demonstrators marching to Yerevan from Etchmiadzin have completely paralyzed traffic on the highway. Scores of people keep joining the march.
4:00pm: Samvel Aleksanyan, a local oligarch close to Serzh Sargsyan, is personally fighting demonstrators in Malatia district. In a video published on Facebook, Aleksanyan is seen kicking a protester who is then forcibly put into a car.
4pm: Several masked people, accompanied by police officers, detained Reject Serzh member Armen Grigoryan from a cafe in downtown Yerevan around 2:30pm. Grigoryan’s friends have yet to find out where he has been taken to.
3:30 Several dozen cars and hundreds of people have blocked the Bagratashen checkpoint. Police are trying to remove the demonstrators from the roadway.
A protester is broadcasting the incident live on Facebook; the video shows that work at the checkpoint is paralyzed. 3:10pm: Several dozen people, including Canadian-Armenian actress Arsine Khanjyan, today gathered outside the Armenian Embassy in Berlin to express their solidarity with the demonstrators in Armenia. 3pm: Protests against Serzh Sargsyan continue across Armenia.
According to reports coming in from provinces, unknown people in civilian clothes keep attacking demonstrators, and uniformed police do nothing to stop them. In Artashat civilian-clad people attacked Azatutyun.am reporter Arus Hakobyan, hit her in the face and tried to take away her camera. Police in the area, however, remained indifferent to the incident.
2։48pm: A group of young women blocked the Moskovyan-Teryan intersection. Dozens of people subsequently joined their protest. Traffic in this area is paralyzed. 2։40pm: Demonstrators are asking police officers to help them block the Vardanants street; otherwise, they say, they are willing to give themselves up for detention.
Video by Azatutyun.am. As of 1:30pm on Saturday, 62 people have been detained from various parts of Yerevan.
2։15pm: Police have installed razor wires on Baghramyan Avenue, not far from Serzh Sargsyan’s residence. The lower part of Baghramyan is currently blocked by lines of police officers with shields and helmets. Armored vehicles have been brought to the avenue. 1:55pm: An opposition activist had parked his car on Abovyan street and locked himself inside the vehicle.
Red-beret officers attacked the car and tried to break the windows and doors with batons. The driver subsequently left got out of the car and was forcibly detained by the officers.
1:43pm: Opposition Yerkir Tsirani party leader Zaruhi Postanjyan has since early morning been carrying out a series of peaceful disobedience acts in the Armenian city of Kapan. A group of citizens have joined Postanjyan and are now marching through the streets of Kapan, chanting “Rebellion!”
Police are overseeing the march to prevent the demonstrators from walking on the roadway. 1:30pm: A number of drivers were just detained from Abovyan street for sounding their car horns, an eyewitness told us.
“We also believe that there can be unpredictable consequences, therefore I urge Sargsyan to immediately accept all our conditions,” Pashinyan said, adding that the conditions should be acceptable for the people. The oppositionist further insisted that Sargsyan has lost all control of the situation and does not realize the full extent of the events happening in Armenia.
1:08pm: Video published by Irakanum.am, showing a protesting driver getting severely beaten up in Yerevan’s Avan district late on Friday. 1pm: The Artashat-Yerevan highway is currently blocked. Police officers have blocked the way of a motorcade moving to the capital to join Serzh Sargsyan’s opponents.
12:55pm: Nearly 200 people working in the gold market in Yerevan’s Malatia district have announced a strike since early morning. They are marching and driving to the Republic Square. 12:50pm:
A woman came up to Pashinyan during the march and told him that an unknown man had earlier attacked her 12-year-old son Narek Mkrtchyan. “He came out of a car with no license plate, pulled his hoodie over his head and attacked my son. He has been missing for over an hour.”
The woman added that she had been actively participating in the demonstrations since day 1. Pashinyan urged the woman to call Civil Contract party member Arayik Harutyunyan and tell him about the incident.
“During the past week several demonstrations and marches were held in Yerevan. Everyone in our country has the right to peaceful demonstrations and marches. The authorities respected that right and will continue to respect it. “Unfortunately, these public meetings were often held in breach of the law, getting unnecessary and anarchic manifestations as reported in numerous statements issued by the Police.
“The developments are fraught with unpredictable consequences, endanger the public order, and can undermine the complex and subtle harmony of Armenian society. “Each of us must remember that besides him, there are other citizens of Armenia who are not less proud of their civic stance; who live, learn, work and rest in this country. Our country’s social harmony should be based on cohesion and tolerance. “I am deeply concerned about the inner-political developments.
In order to avoid irreparable losses, I am urging National Assembly member Nikol Pashinyan to accept our call of political dialogue and joint the table of negotiations. It should be done immediately.
12:35pm: The Armenian police have issued a statement to demand that Nikol Pashinyan immediately stops the rallies across Yerevan. The law enforcement agency threatens otherwise to take measures to disperse them.
12։20pm: Opposition leader Nikol Pashinyan reconvened the daily protests against Serzh Sargsyan’s appointment as Prime Minister early on Saturday in Yerevan’s Nor Nork district. Pashinyan, along with a group of his protesters, intended to start a march with no exact destination point, but was quickly stopped by scores of police officers led by Yerevan deputy police chief Valery Osipyan. After several minutes of arguing with Pashinyan, Osipyan finally announced he would allow the march if the demonstrators agreed to stay to the sidewalks and not obstruct traffic. Pashinyan told Osipyan the march would move towards Yerevan’s Avan district.

When opposition Member of Parliament Nikol Pashinyan led a knot of marchers through northern Armenia in April to protest the return to power of long-serving leader Serzh Sargsyan, no one guessed his campaign would prompt the country to take a leap into the unknown.
One of a mere handful of opposition parliamentarians, Pashinyan has never been a popular leader in this country of three million people. His criticism of the government resonated with those parts of society that oppose Sargsyan and reflected real problems. But when he set out on his march, the former journalist and publicist was a marginal figure.
All that changed when Pashinyan and his march reached the Armenian capital, Yerevan. There they started small protests that were soon to catalyse the biggest domestic political upheaval in a decade in this small, isolated Caucasus republic, which is perennially tense due to its unresolved conflict with neighbouring Azerbaijan over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. The massive demonstrations the marchers helped build have now forced Sargsyan, who served as Armenia’s president over the past decade, to resign from his recently assumed post of prime minister. These events are now being called a “velvet revolution”, though the story is far from over.
Whoever takes over from Sargsyan will face a tall order calming the country’s turmoil. But another challenge will be Nagorno-Karabakh, where, even as the effort to oust Sargsyan snowballed, tensions were heightening over unconfirmed allegations of Azerbaijani troop movements near the disputed enclave. As Armenia enters uncharted political waters, it is vital that all parties avoid escalation in the conflict zone.
A Surprise Revolution Even a couple of weeks ago, little in Yerevan foreshadowed a revolution. The initial street protests against Sargsyan were tiny: twenty young men, at most, gathered in the city centre with banners and megaphones in the evenings.
Belonging to disparate opposition groups, they urged Sargsyan to keep his promise not to seek nomination for the newly strengthened post of prime minister at the end of his second (and, according to the Armenian constitution, final) presidential term. No one thought Sargsyan would yield to protesters’ demands.
He had led the country for a decade and enjoyed a firm grip on power in a system in which political prerogatives are intertwined with oligarchs’ economic interests. Some prominent opposition politicians had become co-opted into this system.
Many Armenians complained about deep apathy in society to the country’s political direction. One high-ranking official dubbed it a rerun of the lacklustre late Soviet era of Leonid Brezhnev. Armenians had tired of Sargsyan, but had little hope of removing him.
But on 16 April, events gathered steam. Police officials tried to disperse a small group of peaceful protesters in a central street of the capital, including those who arrived with Pashinyan. Photos of rows of riot police firing tear gas at protesters and breaking the noses of some spread quickly over social media and were broadcast by major foreign media networks.
Against this backdrop of police brutality, Parliament elected Sargsyan as premier. Thousands of protesters poured into the centre of the capital ... a level of mobilisation not seen since the national liberation movement thirty years ago. In response to his election, the initiators of the protest movement called for civil disobedience.
University students came out into the streets in cities and towns across the country. They blocked traffic in downtown Yerevan and the doors of subway trains.
Demonstrators were joined by masses of ordinary people, who, at a stipulated hour, would beat pots and pans, or honk the horns of their cars. The authorities’ reaction fuelled the protests.
In some Armenian cities, security officials paid visits to the parents of young protesters for “explanatory talks”. In Yerevan, police arrested both ring leaders and rank-and-file. Sargsyan threatened to order a large-scale crackdown, raising fears of a repeat of the 2008 clashes between police and demonstrators that killed ten people, both protesters and police.
Thousands of protesters poured into the centre of the capital. By 22 April, more than 100,000 people packed Yerevan’s main square – a level of mobilisation not seen since the national liberation movement thirty years ago.
The next day, Sargsyan stepped down. In his resignation statement he admitted that he had no clear idea of the situation in the country. He thus not only became the first post-Soviet leader in fifteen years to concede power peacefully to street rallies but also took the even rarer step of admitting his mistakes and disconnect from citizens.
“Chess Grandmaster” Sargsyan’s rise to power came by way of the war with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, the defining issue for Armenia since it regained independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Sargsyan himself is from Karabakh; his modest two-storey parental home, with its well-kept courtyard and veranda, sits on the outskirts of the region’s de facto capital of Stepanakert. He made his name directing civilian logistics, as demands by the Armenian-populated territory to secede from Azerbaijan and join Armenia escalated into full-fledged war.
Armenian forces prevailed in two years of fighting, driving the Azerbaijanis out of almost the entire territory of Nagorno-Karabakh – a former autonomous region – and seven adjacent districts of Azerbaijan. The war ended with a ceasefire in 1994, but the two sides never managed to seal a peace deal.
Sargsyan moved to Yerevan, where he soon took over a security ministry. He was elected president in 2008.
Sargsyan strengthened his hold on power, striking deals with major political players and businessmen inside the country. Sargsyan’s presidency coincided with global economic crisis and Russia’s mounting assertiveness toward its immediate neighbours. The conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh had left Armenia’s borders with Azerbaijan and Turkey closed, which in turn made it more dependent on Russia.
At the same time, Azerbaijan undertook a vast effort, funded by its growing oil wealth, to modernise its armed forces. Armenia, desperate to keep up, became even more reliant on Russia for weaponry, financial aid to support military development and protection (Russia, despite its alliance with Armenia, sells arms to both sides). A fruitless peace process hardened positions on both sides in recent years.
Meanwhile, on the domestic front, Sargsyan strengthened his hold on power, striking deals with major political players and businessmen inside the country. “He has built a pyramid, and no one can do anything about it”, a critic explained on one of my first visits to Yerevan in late 2016. Journalists nicknamed Sargsyan a “chess grandmaster” for his ability to outfox opponents and his widely publicised admiration for the game.
But the president, in his early sixties, has appeared drained in recent years. Members of his party say he strictly narrowed his communications to his closest circle and limited his contact with the press. Reporters complained that during presidential trips around the country they were allowed to film only after Sargsyan had left, “apparently, so that we did not suddenly ask too much”, one suggested.
What’s Next?
Following Sargsyan’s resignation, all political forces in Armenia are preparing for snap parliamentary elections. That vote, expected imminently, in principle might oust much of the discredited ruling elite, given the anger recently on display against Sargsyan. But there is no organised opposition to replace them.
Pashinyan, flush with newfound popularity accumulated during the April protests, will make a bid to succeed Sargsyan as prime minister. A day after the latter’s resignation, Pashinyan called on his supporters to join him in renewed protests against remaining leaders of Sargsyan’s party.
But details of his views on important issues, including Nagorno-Karabakh, are little-known. His promises of “a different Armenia” – let alone far-reaching economic and military reforms ­– may strike voters as sweeping but unconvincing. The coming weeks and months may see several forces jostling for power in a small country with weak institutions and a history of personalised policymaking.
At Pashinyan’s first press conference after Sargsyan’s resignation, which was packed with dozens of local and foreign reporters, he said he was not going to make fast promises on possible changes in Armenia’s foreign policy course and was ready to fight for Armenia’s national interests and Nagorno-Karabakh. He expressed his determination to promote cohabitation with officials in the current government, especially mid-level officials, but only if they agree to support the complete removal of Sargsyan’s party. If Pashinyan prevails in elections and becomes the country’s leader, he also may launch investigations into allegations of corruption and misrule.
“But we will not look for a vendetta”, he has told reporters. The coming weeks and months may thus see several forces jostling for power in a small country with weak institutions and a history of personalised policymaking.
At the same time, signs from Nagorno-Karabakh are worrying. Some weeks ago, the de facto leadership of Nagorno-Karabakh informed the conflict region’s authorities and parliamentarians that they expected some form of Azerbaijani destabilisation along the line of contact, the heavily militarised zone that separates Armenian and Azerbaijani troops.
Armenia distributed video footage apparently showing Azerbaijani heavy weaponry being moved toward Armenian forces. Azerbaijan denied the accusation.
The co-chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group – the international mediators in the conflict – called on the parties to respect the ceasefire “at this delicate time.” The last major confrontation in April 2016, which was the deadliest since 1994, killed more than 200 people, mostly military personnel.
Since then, both sides have increased their combat capabilities, making some more confident in the possibility of a military solution. In the event of renewed clashes, the number of victims, primarily among the civilian population, could well be much larger than in 2016.
About 300,000 people live in the 15km-wide zone along the Azerbaijani side of the Line of Contact. All of the Armenian settlements in Karabakh, which has a population of 150,000, are within reach of Azerbaijani missiles and artillery shells.
Even before the transition at the top in Yerevan, therefore, both sides must heed OSCE’s call for restraint. On the Armenian side, military commanders should abandon the discussion that has been taking place since late 2016 of “pre-emptive strikes” on Azerbaijani positions; this would likely lead to a serious escalation with heavy civilian losses.
In Azerbaijan, politicians should end their routine calls for war. The idea that Armenia’s current turmoil could be a military opportunity is an illusion: any escalation will quickly unite Armenians and lead to prolonged clashes.
An effective preventive measure during the Armenian transition could be the establishment of an open line of communication between the military personnel of both sides. Once a new leadership is formed in Armenia, the parties should move to break the three-year deadlock in peace talks.

