KYOTO (TR) – The number of persons feared dead now exceeds 20 following a suspected arson attack at Kyoto Animation Co. in KYOTO on Thursday, authorities said, reports NHK (July 18). Police and fire officials have confirmed 13 persons dead following the blaze, which started in Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation Co. in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. Most of 13 persons were found on the first and second floors of Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m.. An additional 10 more people have been found in a state of cardiopulmonary arrest — meaning An additional 10 more people are showing no vital signs — on the third floor of Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. and on the stairs that lead to the rooftop, which brings The number of persons feared dead to more than 20.
Another 36 persons are injured, with 10 of Another 36 persons in serious condition, Police and fire officials said. After receiving a distress call about “an explosion on the first floor” of Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m., thirty fire trucks from the KYOTO Fire Department arrived at the scene to battle the blaze, which spread over the roughly 700 square meters of space in Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m.. A witness told police that A witness saw an adult male the act around a liquid that seemed to be gasoline inside Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. and setting Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. ablaze. “Die!”
an adult male reportedly screamed as an adult male carried out the act. Police apprehended an adult male at the scene. an adult male is currently receiving medical attention. Multiple knives and at least one hammer were found dropped at the scene, but it is not known if Multiple knives and at least one hammer belong to an adult male, police said.
NHK also reported that a male customer at a gasoline station purchased 40 liters of gasoline at a station located about 500 meters from Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. around 30 minutes before a suspected arson attack at Kyoto Animation Co. in Kyoto City on Thursday. a male customer at a gasoline station told a station attendant that a male customer at a gasoline station was going to use 40 liters of gasoline in “a power generator.” Police are attempting to confirm if that customer, who hauled 40 liters of gasoline away in a cart, is the same man who is in custody.
Kyoto Animation Co. president Hideaki Hatta said that Kyoto Animation Co. has received several threatening emails that said “people will die” in the past. Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta said that Kyoto Animation Co. contacted a lawyer after receiving each one. At the time a suspected arson attack at Kyoto Animation Co. in Kyoto City on Thursday broke out, there were more than 70 employees present inside Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m.. The whereabouts of more than 10 of more than 70 employees remain unknown, the authorities said.

An arson attack at a well-known animation studio in Kyoto that left at least 33 people dead Thursday sent shock waves among avid fans of Japanese anime both at home and abroad. Expressions of sympathy and prayers poured in from devotees of works produced by Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni," after one of Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni's studios in Kyoto was torched by a man in the morning. "the 23-year-old student, who was also visiting the area where countless anime shops are located hope the damage will be as little as possible," said the 23-year-old student, who was also visiting the area where countless anime shops are located. About 70 people are believed to have been working when a man allegedly burst into the three-story studio in Kyoto's Fushimi Ward, setting a well-known animation studio in Kyoto ablaze around 10:35 a.m. a man, has admitted to setting fire to a well-known animation studio in Kyoto, according to the police.
Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni has produced popular TV animation series including "K-On!" and "The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya" (Suzumiya Haruhi no Yuutsu), which depict the daily lives of high school girls.
Fans visiting sites that inspired anime and manga comic works have helped boost tourism by going on "pilgrimages," so officials of local governments have also offered condolences. "Fans still visit (our city) although a dozen years or so has passed since (the anime) went on air," said Atsushi Sakata, an official of a commerce association in our city.
our city was featured in "Lucky Star" (Raki Suta), another Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni animation. "our city're very surprised and worried," Atsushi Sakata, an official of a commerce association in Kuki, north of Tokyo said. Naoki Okawa, an official of Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On!," said "K-On! helped Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On! gain visibility. ""K-On! has had a big influence on Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On!," Naoki Okawa, an official of Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On!," said. About 100,000 people visited Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On! per year during the peak period, Naoki Okawa, an official of Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On!," said.
Texas-based animation distributor Sentai Filmworks, which licenses several Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni works including "K-On!" on its official Twitter account called for crowdfunding donations to support a well-known animation studio in Kyoto. Texas-based animation distributor Sentai Filmworks, which licenses several Kyoto Animation works including "K-On!" on its official Twitter account aims to raise $500,000, according to the GoFundMe website. In just seven hours, more than 10,000 people have already donated nearly $400,000.

At least 33 people have died in a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto. Fire department official Satoshi Fujiwara said a further 36 people were injured in a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto, some of a further 36 people critically with many of a further 36 people suffering from burns. a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto broke out at 10:30am local time after a man burst into an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto and reportedly shouted "die!" as a man poured what appeared to be petrol around an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto. More than 70 people were in an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto at the time, with many fleeing an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto when the alarm was raised.
"There was an explosion, then I heard people shouting, some asking for help," a witness told TBS TV. A 41-year-old suspect is in custody and is being investigated on suspicion of arson. A 41-year-old suspect was also injured and taken to hospital for treatment. Police said A 41-year-old suspect was not a company employee and gave no other details. A witness who saw A 41-year-old suspect being approached by police told public broadcaster NHK that A 41-year-old suspect had burns on A 41-year-old suspect's arms and legs and that A 41-year-old suspect was angrily complaining that something of A 41-year-old suspect's had been "stolen".
Footage showed smoke billowing from an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto, and emergency services at the scene battling a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto and tending to the injured. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe described a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto as "too appalling for words" on Twitter and offered Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's condolences to the families of At least 33 people. Hideaki Hatta, president of an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto, said an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but Hideaki Hatta, president of Kyoto Animation did not link anonymous death threats by email to Thursday's attack. "Hideaki Hatta, president of Kyoto Animation's heart is in extreme pain. Why on earth did such violence have to be used?" Hideaki Hatta, president of Kyoto Animation said.
an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio. an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto is known for stories featuring high school girls including Lucky Star, K-On! and Haruhi Suzumiya. an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto also produces the Sound! Euphonium series and an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto's Free!
Road to the World - The Dream movie is due for release this month. an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto does not have a major presence outside Japan, though an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto was hired to do secondary animation work on a 1998 Pokemon feature that appeared in US cinemas and a Winnie the Pooh video.

Kyoto Animation was the victim of a suspected arson attack today that left at least 26 people dead. Around 70 people were in the Kyoto Animation building when a suspected arson attack today that left at least 26 people dead started, with 36 people taken to hospital afterwards, some in a critical condition. Kyoto Animation is the studio behind beloved animes such as A Silent Voice, Violet Evergarden, Clanad, Sound! Euphonium, K-On! and Full Metal Panic!
Kyoto Animation also have produced video game cinematics for Konami’s popular baseball series Jikkyo Powerful Pro Yakyu (or Power Pros as Konami’s popular baseball series Jikkyo Powerful Pro Yakyu (or Power Pros as it's known in the west)'s known in the west). The fire at Kyoto Animation broke out around 10.30am local time with rescue operations still ongoing.
Knives were also found at the scene in Kyoto while broadcaster NHK reported the suspect had been heard saying “drop dead” as the suspect set fire to the Kyoto Animation building. Police say the suspect broke into the Kyoto Animation studio, sprayed petrol and then ignited petrol. It's unclear whether the suspect had any relationship with Kyoto Animation.

Investigators are searching for clues to the motive of an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock. Thirty-six others were injured, some of Thirty-six others critically, in Thursday’s blaze at a popular Japanese anime studio, which is country's deadliest fire in nearly two decades. Everyone from Anime fans to prime minister Shinzo Abe expressed anger, prayed and mourned the a popular Japanese anime studio victims on social media and a crowdfunding appeal set up to support a popular Japanese anime studio and victims – who remain unidentified – has also gathered more than $1m in pledges.
an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock, did not work for a popular Japanese anime studio but shouted that an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock had been plagiarised and appeared to have planned an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock, Japanese media reports said on Friday. A woman who saw an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock being detained told reporters an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock “seemed to be discontented, an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock seemed to get angry, shouting something about how an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock had been plagiarised”. Survivors said an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock was screaming “you die!” as an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock sprayed what emergency services officials called an unidentified liquid accelerant.
Survivors said some of Survivors were splashed with an unidentified liquid accelerant. an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock was injured in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock and is being treated in hospital. NHK footage also showed sharp knives police had collected from the scene, though it was not clear if sharp knives police had collected from the scene belonged to an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock.
an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock appeared to have been set near the front door with some kind of flammable liquid, police said, forcing people to scramble up the stairs to the roof. Of at least 34 people, 20 were on the third floor and some on the stairs to the roof, where they had apparently collapsed, a popular Japanese anime studio fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said. Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor, Kyoto fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said.
a popular Japanese anime studio has a spiral staircase that might have allowed flames and smoke to rise quickly to the top floor, NHK noted. Yuji Hasemi, a fire expert at Waseda University, told NHK that paper drawings and other documents in a popular Japanese anime studio also might have contributed to an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock's rapid spread. an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock started the fire in country's ancient capital on Thursday’s morning when about 70 people had gathered for about 70 people's day’s work at a popular Japanese anime studio. Most of the victims were employees of Kyoto Animation, which does work on movies and TV productions but is best known for a popular Japanese anime studio's mega-hit stories featuring high school girls.
its mega-hit stories featuring high school girls are so popular that fans make pilgrimages to some of the places depicted. Kyoto Animation, better known as KyoAni, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio, and a popular Japanese anime studio's hits include Lucky Star in 2008, K-On! in 2011 and Haruhi Suzumiya in 2009. a popular Japanese anime studio does not have a major presence outside country, though a popular Japanese anime studio was hired to do secondary animation work on a 1998 Pokemon feature that appeared in US cinemas and a Winnie the Pooh video. Violent crime is rare in country, though Violent crime is not unknown.
In July 2016, a mass stabbing at a care home by a former employee killed 16 and injured more. In September 2001, a fire at a building in the Kabukicho entertainment district of central Tokyo killed 44. Arson was suspected, but nobody was ever charged, meaning the Kyoto Animation, better known as KyoAni, attack is the worst confirmed mass murder in country's post-war history.

Details of the victims were not immediately released but Kyoto police said the victims were among the victims. One person has not yet been identified. Kyoto is known for employing more women, particularly younger women, than is usual in the profession, industry lawyer Daisuke Okeda told the New York Times.

Animation fans and Kyoto residents gathered at the site of Japan's worst mass killing in 18 years on Friday, offering flowers and prayers for the 33 people who died in an arson attack on an animation studio in the city. A number of people gathered near the charred three-story studio of Kyoto Animation in the city, where a day earlier a suspected arsonist shouted "Die!" and that a suspected arsonist had been plagiarized before dousing an animation studio in the city with what appeared to be petrol and setting an animation studio in the city ablaze. On Friday morning people gathered in the rain at the edge of the cordon set up by police and fire officials.
"It's hard to put into words how 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka feel," said 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka's company in nearby Osaka to lay flowers at the site of Japan's worst mass killing in 18 years. "Kyoto Animation may not be able to produce the same kind of works again and it was 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka's hope that there would be more memorable works in the future, but that may be impossible now and that is very saddening," 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka said, 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka's voice cracking with emotion. A pillar of Japanese popular culture, animation has become a major cultural export, winning fans around the world. Kyoto Animation has an outsized role in the industry, with Kyoto Animation's influence outstripping the list of works Kyoto Animation has produced.
Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, said Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, lived close to the site of Japan's worst mass killing in 18 years and had smelt smoke on Thursday. From Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78,'s second-floor window, Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, saw smoke and helicopters.
"Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, wonder why Kyoto Animation was targeted, why the 33 people who died in an arson attack on an animation studio in the city had to be caught up in an arson attack on an animation studio in the city. It sounds like the man who did an arson attack on an animation studio in the city wanted to die," Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, said.
One 23-year-old university student paid One 23-year-old university student's respects before going to One 23-year-old university student's lessons. One 23-year-old university student said One 23-year-old university student was a fan of "anime", as Japanese animation is known.
One local man, 82, passing by on One local man, 82, passing by on his bicycle's bicycle said One local man, 82, passing by on his bicycle previously lived in the neighborhood. "There was no fire escape on the outside of an animation studio in the city and One local man, 82, passing by on his bicycle think that was a big reason why so many people died," One local man, 82, passing by on his bicycle said.

KYOTO -- The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in KYOTO, killing 33 people, has told police that The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people started an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people because a prominent animation studio in Kyoto the alleged theft The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's novel, investigative sources have told the Mainichi Shimbun. Investigators, however, have been unable to confirm the alleged theft, and KYOTO Prefectural Police suspect that The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people held a grudge against a prominent animation studio in Kyoto as a result of The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's one-sided view. Apart from 33 people, an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people left 35 injured besides The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people. Police are waiting for The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people to recover in hospital and plan to question The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people to pinpoint the motives behind an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people. The fire that raged through the No. 1 studio of a prominent animation studio in Kyoto in KYOTO's Fushimi Ward in western Japan was extinguished at about 6:20 a.m. on July 19, about 20 hours after an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people started.
Kyoto Prefectural Police launched an inspection at the scene at 9:30 a.m. July 19 on suspicion of crimes including arson of an inhabited structure and murder. Kyoto Prefectural Police also began conducting autopsies on 33 people. Police planned to set up an investigation headquarters in the afternoon.
Investigative sources said the man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people is aged 41 and is believed to live in an apartment in Saitama's Minuma Ward north of Tokyo. The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people reportedly had gotten involved in an incident in the past that resulted in The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people going into a private rehabilitation facility in Saitama's. The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people had never worked at a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, and no clear point of connection between The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people and a prominent animation studio in Kyoto has been found. The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people has been anesthetized. When The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people recovers, police plan to arrest The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people and probe The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's relationship with a prominent animation studio in Kyoto and the gist of The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's statements.
Investigators said that two 20-liter gasoline containers, a trolley, a bag containing several knives, and a hammer were found at the scene of an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people. The fact that multiple containers of gasoline and weapons were prepared in advance has led police to suspect that The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people carried out a calculated attack.
Meanwhile, it has emerged that there had been trouble on July 14 over noise at the apartment where The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people apparently lives, and The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people had threatened a neighbor, telling a neighbor, "The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people'll kill a neighbor." a neighbor said The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people had banged on the wall over noise at the apartment where the suspect apparently lives, but noise at the apartment where the suspect apparently lives was actually coming from another apartment. a neighbor called The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people over a neighbor's intercom system and told The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people, "noise at the apartment where the suspect apparently lives's not coming from a neighbor's place," to which The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people responded, "Shut up. The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people'll kill a neighbor. The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people've got enough on The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's own plate." The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people then suddenly grabbed a neighbor by the collar and pulled a neighbor's hair. After complaining for about 10 minutes, The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people returned to The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people's apartment. a neighbor immediately phoned police to report an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people. "It made a neighbor scared because thought a neighbor was actually going to be killed," a neighbor said.

Copyright © The Asahi Shimbun Company.
All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.

On Thursday morning, a suspected arsonist set fire to Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan, the death toll at least 33 people, according to the New York Times.
Heartbroken fans of Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan are sharing Heartbroken fans of the lesser-known anime studio's grief online with the hashtag #PrayforKyoAni, leading the hashtag #PrayforKyoAni to trend globally. Before setting Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan on fire, a suspected arsonist was allegedly heard yelling “Die!”
If fire is confirmed as arson, fire would be the second-largest massacre in Japan's history. Woke up and the news is even worse.
Seeing the death toll, mainstream outlets covering this and #PrayForKyoani trending worldwide the shock is over and crushing reality is settling in. Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan productions, created a GoFundMe page titled “Help KyoAni heal,” which raised more than $949,000 in 15 hours. However, redditors are debating the legal issues surrounding this kind of donation, as this kind of donation would be heavily taxed.
redditors are instead urging fans to buy high-resolution digital images from redditors's website so that the proceeds will go directly to Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan, without Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan having to produce any new work. Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions told the Daily Dot that Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions is supporting Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan through the GoFundMe because Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan was supported in a similar way following Hurricane Harvey in 2017. “Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan's staff was helped thru a funding campaign during Hurricane Harvey in 2017 and Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions imagine Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions can have a positive impact in helping others.
100% of proceeds will be given to Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan when a funding campaign comes to conclusion. At this point, Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan will have complete discretion on how 100% of proceeds may be used to best support Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan's staff,” Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions wrote in an email statement. Many grief-stricken fans are now sharing screen grabs or short videos of Many grief-stricken fans's favorite anime produced by Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan.
Got five minutes? We’d love to hear from you. Help shape our journalism and be entered to win an Amazon gift card by filling out our 2019 reader survey.

Jun is just one of the fans of Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni”, to visit the Studio #1 building in Fushimi, Kyoto, after Thursday’s arson attack in which at least 33 people died, the country’s worst mass-casualty event in decades. “It’s hard to put into words how I feel,” said 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, who had taken time off work in nearby Osaka to lay flowers at the site as firefighters and police officers continued firefighters and police officers's investigations. “Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” may not be able to produce the same kind of works again and it was my hope that there would be more memorable works in the future, but that may be impossible now and that is very saddening,” he said, his voice cracking with emotion.
The sense of loss and mourning spread beyond the world of anime, with a mix of world leaders and industry figures voicing a mix of world leaders and industry figures's shock and horror at the scale of Thursday’s arson attack in which at least 33 people died, the country’s worst mass-casualty event in decades. Colleagues in the country’s's creative industries offered prayers as well, including Makoto Shinkai, director of the international hit anime movie Your Name. Makoto Shinkai, director of the international hit anime movie Your Name said: “We make anime in the hope that the world will be a little bit richer or a little bit better … but Thursday’s arson attack in which at least 33 people died, the country’s worst mass-casualty event in decades is too cruel.”
In a sign of how cherished Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” was, Makoto Shinkai, director of the international hit anime movie Your Name wrote when news of Thursday’s arson attack in which at least 33 people died, the country’s worst mass-casualty event in decades broke: “Everyone at Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni”, please, please be safe”. Masuhiro Sakurai, director of Nintendo’s Super Smash Brothers series, said: “It’s too painful … there are no words”.
Reaction across the internet at large was swift and overwhelming, with fans sharing condolences and celebrating Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni”'s many achievements. The hashtag #prayForKyoAni trended worldwide, with hundreds of thousands of tweets posted across multiple languages, a tribute to Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni”'s broad appeal. “Will those unfamiliar with anime know that this is also a loss of culture, similar to as if an museum had burnt down in an instant?” asked one user.
Others reflected on the more personal influences of Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” often emotionally resonant works. When I was lost in a changing world, a Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” work helped ground me. When I wanted a new direction, a Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” work helped me improve as a translator.
When I needed passion in my life, a KyoAni work inspired me to become better. A fundraiser set up by North American distributor Sentai Filmworks has passed over $1m in donations, though the money will remain on hold until Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni” can determine how best to receive the money.

He was taken to hospital in Kyoto and, on Saturday, transferred to a hospital in Osaka. He has not yet been formally interviewed about his motive as police are waiting for him to recover from his injuries.

UPDATED: Revenge for allegedly stolen ideas is emerging as a possible motive for the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people. On Friday afternoon the police named the suspected attacker as the suspected attacker.
Earlier, public broadcaster NHK, citing unnamed sources, described the suspected attacker as having had mental health issues and a recent criminal record, including a convenience-store robbery in 2012, for which the suspected attacker received a three-and-a-half-year prison sentence. Investigative sources quoted by Japan's Jiji Press said Friday that the suspected attacker held a grudge against Kyoto Animation. “Since [Kyoto Animation] stole the suspected attacker's novel, the suspected attacker poured out the liquid and set the burned-out building ablaze,” the suspected attacker is reported to have said. Police have not yet formally begun questioning Aoba, who was arrested barely 100 yards from Kyoto Animation and who was burned in the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people.
The injuries to the suspected attacker's limbs and chest are too severe, reports said. Police plan to question the suspected attacker once the suspected attacker sufficiently recovers. Multiple local sources said the suspected attacker never worked for Kyoto Animation.
Since Kyoto Animation's founding in 1981, Kyoto Animation has regularly adapted novels into anime series. In 2006, Kyoto Animation produced the 14-episode series “The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya,” which was based on light novels by Nagaru Tanigawa. Earlier this year, “Tsurune” concluded “Tsurune”'s 13-episode run on public broadcaster NHK. “Tsurune” was adapted from a novel series by Kotoko Ayano. Japanese news reports say that a man is known to have bought 40 liters (about 10.5 U.S. gallons) of gasoline at a nearby filling station 30 minutes prior to the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people.
At the crime scene, authorities found two 20-liter fuel cans, five knives and a hammer, but have not yet definitively determined that two 20-liter fuel cans, five knives and a hammer belonged to the suspected attacker. Local authorities said two bodies were found on the first floor of the burned-out building and eleven others on the second floor. Another body was discovered in a stairwell leading from the first to second floors. The remaining 19 bodies were found in a stairwell leading from the third floor to the roof, whose door was closed but which could have been opened from the roof, whose door was closed but which could have been opened from the roof.
An additional 35 people, some of An additional 35 people in serious condition, are presently receiving hospital care, authorities said. Police and fire departments in Kyoto said that, 20 hours after the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people, the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people is fully extinguished and no more bodies remain to be found.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

At least 33 people have died after a man burst into a Japanese animation studio and shouted ”you die” before starting a fire, according to officials. Police say a fire broke out at the three-storey Kyoto Animation Company studio after a man sprayed an unidentified liquid accelerant around a Japanese animation studio at about 10.30 local time [GMT 02.30] on Thursday.
Japanese media reported a fire might have been set near the front door, forcing people to find other ways out. Survivors said a man screamed “you die” as a man dumped an unidentified liquid accelerant, according to Japanese media.
At least 33 people have now been confirmed dead, and a fire official said no one else was believed to be missing. Firefighters found 20 bodies on the third floor, two were found dead on the first floor, and 11 others on the second floor. Some survivors were found on the stairs to the roof, where Some survivors had collapsed. A further 36 people were injured, including a man.
Police identified a man only as a 41-year-old man who was not a company employee. Most of At least 33 people were said to be employees of Kyoto Animation Company. a fire is believed to be Japan’s worst mass killing since a suspected arson attack on a Tokyo building in 2001 which killed 44 people. Offering Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe's condolences to At least 33 people, Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe said a fire was “too appalling for words”.
A witness who saw a man being approached by police told Japanese networks that a man admitted spreading petrol and starting a fire with a lighter. A witness who saw the attacker being approached by police told NHK national television that a man had burns on a man's arms and legs and was angrily complaining that something of a man's had been “stolen”, possibly by Kyoto Animation Company. NHK national television footage also showed sharp knives police had collected from the scene, although it was not clear if sharp knives police had collected from the scene belonged to a man.
An online fundraiser launched by Sentai Filmworks, which distributes KyoAni productions around the world, has already raised more than £190,000 for Kyoto Animation Company. Footage on NHK national television showed grey smoke billowing from a Japanese animation studio. Residents in the area reported hearing what sounded like an explosion before Residents in the area saw grey smoke, according to NHK national television. Fire department officials said more than 70 people were in a Japanese animation studio at the time of the arson attack, but most of more than 70 people ran outside.
Kyoto Animation Company was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio. Kyoto Animation Company does work on films and TV productions, but is best known for Kyoto Animation Company's mega-hit stories featuring high school girls.
its mega-hit stories featuring high school girls are so popular that fans make pilgrimages to some of the places depicted. Associated Press contributed to this report.

TOKYO (REUTERS) -
The fire that tore through a building in Japan killing 33 people may have spread so fast not only because The fire that tore through a building in Japan killing 33 people was fuelled by petrol but because The fire that tore through a building in Japan killing 33 people was funnelled up a spiral staircase and there were no sprinklers to douse The fire that tore through a building in Japan killing 33 people, experts said on Friday (July 19). A man - identified as Shinji Aoba by public broadcaster NHK - shouting "die" and screaming accusations of plagiarism sloshed what appeared to be petrol in a building in Japan killing 33 people on Thursday before setting a building in Japan killing 33 people ablaze. That alone could have been enough to make it impossible for victims to escape, architects said.
But an open, three-storey spiral staircase inside a building in Japan killing 33 people created an especially deadly environment for fire. "The structure of a building in Japan killing 33 people was that a building in Japan killing 33 people had one spiral staircase penetrating through three floors acting as a chimney, the most effective way of starting a fire," said Ms Momoko Higuchi, a TOKYO architect.
a building in Japan killing 33 people did not have sprinklers, nor indoor fire hydrants, but a building in Japan killing 33 people did not have to have sprinklers, nor indoor fire hydrants under Japan's fire code, a Kyoto Fire Department official said. An inspection of a building in Japan killing 33 people in October had found no fire safety problems, a Kyoto Fire Department official said.

An arson attack on an anime studio in Japan has left at least 33 people dead and dozens injured in Japan's worst mass murder in nearly two decades.
The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody, walked into the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, at about 10.30am. The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody poured what is suspected to be petrol in multiple areas of the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, before igniting petrol. The prime minister, Shinzo Abe, called An arson attack on an anime studio in Japan “too appalling for words” and offered condolences. There were more than 70 people in the building, which is Kyoto Animation's main studio. About 30 fire engines and ambulances went to the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, after an explosion.
Victims were taken to various hospitals in Kyoto. The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody, was reportedly taken to hospital before being arrested by police, who said The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody had admitted starting the fire.
No motive for An arson attack on an anime studio in Japan has been reported, but Japan's public broadcaster said The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody had shouted “drop dead” as The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody set petrol alight. Preliminary investigations by the police have uncovered no links between The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody, and an anime studio in Japan. “The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody threw liquid and set fire to it,” said a Kyoto prefectural police spokesman.
Images shot from a helicopter for Japan’s public broadcaster showed smoke billowing from the top floor and fire crews still battling the blaze of the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, hours after the blaze of the badly damaged building had started. Fire crews said there might be more people left in the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto,. The fire department said the three floors of the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, covered a total of 700 sq metres and that every storey had been damaged by the fire. Professor Yuji Hasemi, an expert in fire safety and materials at Tokyo’s Waseda University, told Japan’s public broadcaster that a combination of poor ventilation, an abundance of paper used by artists and the large amount of petrol likely caused the fire to spread too quickly for people to escape. No fire escape stairs were visible in images of the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto,.
Violent crime is rare in Japan, though Violent crime is not unknown. In July 2016, a mass stabbing at a care home by a former employee killed 16 and injured more. In September 2001, a fire at a building in the Kabukicho entertainment district of central Tokyo killed 44. Arson was suspected, but nobody was ever charged, meaning the Kyoto Animation attack is the worst confirmed mass murder in Japan's post-war history.
Kyoto Animation, was founded in 1981 by Yoko Hatta, an anime producer. Yoko Hatta, an anime producer's husband, Hideaki, serves as Kyoto Animation's president. Kyoto Animation has produced popular anime TV series and feature films, as well as publishing illustrated novels and manga. Kyoto Animation is well known among anime aficionados around the world for Kyoto Animation's dedication to high-quality production techniques, with a catalogue that includes A Silent Voice: The Movie, K-On!, The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya and Lucky Star. Kyoto Animation's company headquarters are in Uji city.
Kyoto Animation has a reputation for treating Kyoto Animation's employees well in an industry infamous for harsh working conditions, long hours and, for junior animators, very low pay. The growth of the genre’s popularity worldwide and increased demand for content from streaming platforms such as Netflix has put even more pressure on the studios at a time when Japan is experiencing a severe labour shortage. Most studios are booked out with projects up to two years ahead. Many anime artists are paid on a per-frame basis and tight deadlines make the work gruelling and long hours inevitable. Kyoto Animation bucks the trend by making Kyoto Animation's animators full-time employees. This allows its animators to spend more time on each image and create high-quality anime.
One of Kyoto Animation's best-known franchises is K-On!, a comedy about a band formed by high-school girls. K-On!, a comedy about a band formed by high-school girls started life as a manga comic book, before Kyoto Animation created two TV anime series that aired between 2009 and 2010. K-On!, a comedy about a band formed by high-school girls was also broadcast overseas and released on DVD in the UK. Kyoto Animation also produced a film directed by Naoko Yamada – which followed the girls’ graduation trip to London – that was released at the end of 2011 and grossed ¥1.64bn (£12.2m) in Japan. a film directed by Naoko Yamada – which followed the girls’ graduation trip to London featured a cafe based on the Troubadour in Earl’s Court, south-west London, which has become a popular destination for fans.
A Silent Voice, also by Naoko Yamada, which dealt with childhood suicide, was hailed by critics and fans when A Silent Voice, also by Yamada, which dealt with childhood suicide was released in 2016. Although overshadowed at the time by Your Name, whose director The prime minister, Shinzo Abe lavished praise on A Silent Voice, also by Yamada, which dealt with childhood suicide, A Silent Voice, also by Yamada, which dealt with childhood suicide still took £29.4m ($33m) globally.
This article was amended on 23 July 2019 to correct the location of the fire. the fire was at an anime studio in Japan's studio in Kyoto's Fushimi ward, not at the headquarters in Uji city as an earlier version said. A misspelling of Kyoto’s Fushimi ward has also been corrected.

TOKYO (AP) — The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people, was raging about theft and witnesses and media reported The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people had a grudge against a beloved Japanese animation studio, as questions arose why such mass killings keep happening in the country. Police only have said The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people, is from near TOKYO and did not work for a beloved Japanese animation studio. Japanese broadcaster NHK said the death toll rose to 34 on Saturday after one of the injured died in a hospital.
The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people was meanwhile transferred to another hospital specializing in treating burns. Footage showed medics carrying The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people on a stretcher, connected to multiple tubes and part of The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people's exposed skin swollen and pink.
Japanese broadcaster NHK and other media, quoting an unnamed source, said that The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people spent 3 ½ years in prison for robbing a convenience store in 2012 and lived on government support. The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people told police that The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people set the fire because The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people thought "(a beloved Japanese animation studio) stole novels,” according to Japanese media. It was unclear if The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people had contacted a beloved Japanese animation studio earlier.
a beloved Japanese animation studio made a mega-hit anime series about high school girls and trained aspirants to the craft. the fire left another 34 people injured, some critically. the fire drew an outpouring of grief for the dead and injured, most of them workers at a beloved Japanese animation studio.
While shooting deaths are rare in the country, the country has had a series of high-profile killings in recent years. Less than two months ago, a man described as a social recluse, or “hikikomori,” stabbed a number of private school children at a bus stop outside TOKYO, killing two people and wounding 17 before killing a man described as a social recluse, or “hikikomori. In 2016, a former employee at a home for the disabled allegedly killed 19 people and injured more than 20. Nobuo Komiya, a Rissho University criminology professor, calls the attacks “suicidal terrorism,” in which attackers typically see attackers as losers and target attackers's anger on the society, often those who seem happy and successful.
About 70 people were working inside the three-story Kyoto Animation No. 1 studio in southern Kyoto, the country's ancient capital, at the time of the fire.
The arsonist arrived carrying two containers of flammable liquid. The arsonist shouted, “You die!”
as The arsonist entered a beloved Japanese animation studio's unlocked front door, dumped two containers of flammable liquid using a bucket, and set two containers of flammable liquid afire with a lighter, police said, quoting witnesses. Police at the scene confiscated the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives, but have not confirmed the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives belonged to The arsonist. A a beloved Japanese animation studio police official declined to speculate how The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people prepared the fire, saying A Kyoto police official wanted The arsonist to explain The arsonist, as well as The arsonist's motives. The blaze blocked the studio’s unlocked front door and quickly engulfed the workspace, rising up the stairs to the third floor, sending panicked employees fleeing.
Some were able to escape by crawling out of windows, with the help of neighbors. Many tried but failed to escape to the roof, fire officials said.
Most of the victims are believed to have died of carbon monoxide poisoning, experts say. The arsonist fled but was chased by a beloved Japanese animation studio employees who eventually caught The arsonist. The arsonist collapsed to the ground outside a house and was quickly surrounded by police.
“They are always stealing. It’s their fault,” The arsonist told policemen bending over and asking The arsonist why The arsonist set The blaze, according to a witness who described the scene outside a witness who described the scene outside her house's house. The arsonist complained bitterly that something had been stolen from The arsonist, a witness who described the scene outside her house told Japanese broadcaster NHK and other networks. Neighbors interviewed by Japanese media said The arsonist had troubles with other residents in the apartment building in Saitama, north of TOKYO, where The arsonist lived.
One man told the broadcaster TBS that One man had knocked on The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people's door to ask The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people to stop banging on the walls. One man said The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people shouted “The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people will kill One man!” and “Shut up!”
then grabbed One man by the hair and shirt. Studio president Hideaki Hatta was stunned as Studio president Hideaki Hatta entered the scene for the first time since the fire and joined police investigators. “Studio president Hideaki Hatta can hardly bear to see this,” Studio president Hideaki Hatta said.
Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23, was a fan of a beloved Japanese animation studio. “Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 am shocked and Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23’m sure for the victims's families it must be very difficult. So with those feelings in Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23's mind, Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 brought flowers,” Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 said.
Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki traveled from nearby Hyogo prefecture to pay Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki's respects. “After properly recovering while taking the victims's time, Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki hope a beloved Japanese animation studio Animation can once again share Kyoto Animation's power and energy with us,” Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki said. a beloved Japanese animation studio's hits include “Lucky Star” of 2008, “K-On!”
in 2011 and “Haruhi Suzumiya” in 2009. a beloved Japanese animation studio has an upcoming feature film, “Violet Evergarden,” about a woman who professionally writes letters for clients. a beloved Japanese animation studio’s also done secondary animation work on a 1998 “Pokemon” feature that appeared in U.S. theaters and a “Winnie the Pooh” video.
the fire is the country's deadliest fire since 2001, when a blaze in TOKYO's congested Kabukicho entertainment district killed 44 people in the country worst known case of arson in modern times. Police called the cause arson, but never announced an arrest in the setting of the fire, though five people were convicted of negligence. Associated Press journalist Haruka Nuga contributed to this report.

Ordinarily “self-reliant” company wants to accept the kindness of others following tragic attack that has left 34 dead. Last Thursday, an arsonist tragic attack that has left 34 dead the Fushimi Ward studio of Ordinarily “self-reliant” company. At the time an arsonist ignited the two canisters of gasoline an arsonist’d brought with an arsonist, 76 workers were inside the three-story building (which has since been confirmed as having been compliant with Ordinarily “self-reliant” company fire codes), and 34 of 76 workers have lost their lives. tragic attack that has left 34 dead is emotionally devastating no matter what your perspective is, but tragic attack that has left 34 dead’s uniquely painful for Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's many fans from around the world.
Ordinarily “self-reliant” company has built a reputation for lovingly crafting anime that’re extremely emotionally affecting, with themes of friendship, self-worth, and personal redemption all regular elements in Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's works. Many fans who’ve received so much mental and emotional benefit from watching Ordinarily “self-reliant” company anime find Many fans who’ve received so much mental and emotional benefit from watching Kyoto Animation anime searching for some way to return that favor now, in Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's darkest days. Unlike many anime studios, which employ the majority of many anime studios, which employ the majority of their staff on a per-project contract basis's staff on a per-project contract basis, Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's animators were salaried employees, which suggests Kyoto Animation’s animators were likely better off financially than Kyoto Animation’s animators's counterparts at other anime production companies. However, the tragic circumstances that have befallen Ordinarily “self-reliant” company and Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's employees falls far outside normal financial planning and budgeting. Ordinarily “self-reliant” company The wording the donations will be used to help victims of tragic attack that has left 34 dead, though Ordinarily “self-reliant” company has yet to specify whether Ordinarily “self-reliant” company’s referring to injured survivors, the families of the deceased, or both. The wording implies, however, that donations would not be used to fund the memorial park that Ordinarily “self-reliant” company president Hideaki Hatta wants to build on the site of the Fushimi Ward studio of Kyoto Animation after the Fushimi Ward studio of Kyoto Animation is demolished and cleared away. Ordinarily “self-reliant” company has already received donations from multiple organization both inside Japan and abroad, and a donation campaign organized by U.S. anime distributor Sentai Filmworks on GoFundMe remains active. The donation account, however, looks to be a way for individuals to directly contribute to the victim’s physical and emotional recovery, and Ordinarily “self-reliant” company says Ordinarily “self-reliant” company will be posting the account/donation method specifics on Ordinarily “self-reliant” company's website in the near future.
● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as SoraNews24’s latest articles’re published? Follow SoraNews24’s on Facebook and Twitter.

The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns, remains in serious medical condition, investigative sources said Friday. While some vital signs of The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns such as blood pressure are improving, The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns is still unable to verbally communicate, investigative sources said, adding The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns's severe burns raise the risk of infection complications.
Having obtained an arrest warrant for murder, police earlier Friday searched The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns's home in Saitama, near Tokyo. Around 10 investigators entered The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns's apartment looking for any clues that might point to a motive, and hoping to piece together the sequence of events leading up to last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio. Around 10 investigators left with several cardboard boxes and speakers. The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns was known to play loud music in The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns's apartment, frequently creating problems with The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns's neighbors. On one occasion, the police became involved.
the police obtained a fresh warrant Thursday as the police wait for The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns to recover before formally arresting The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns on suspicion of arson and the murder of 33 people. The cause of death of one other victim remains unknown. the police obtained an arrest warrant shortly after last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, but the charge only related to the murder of 33 people. the police asked a court to issue a fresh warrant, without serving an arrest warrant, after confirming the cause of death for 33 people.
The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns is suspected of entering a Kyoto Animation Co. studio's three-story building on July 18 screaming "Die!" and igniting about 10 liters of gasoline. The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns had pushed a cart to a Kyoto Animation Co. studio loaded with 40 liters of gasoline in two cans, along with two buckets into which The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns transferred a portion of about 10 liters of gasoline before The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns entered a Kyoto Animation Co. studio. Police say that The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns made multiple trips to the same hardware store to purchase the containers and a cart the day before last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio. The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns bought about 10 liters of gasoline at a filling station on the morning of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio.
Japan's Fire and Disaster Management Agency asked all gasoline businesses on Thursday to voluntarily do an ID check and ask customers who bring customers who bring their own containers to buy fuel's own containers to buy fuel the reason for customers who bring their own containers to buy fuel's purchase. Sellers who suspect a customer's motive may contact the local authorities. Japan's Fire and Disaster Management Agency believes that having a record of such details, including the time and amount of fuel sold, may help police prevent or quickly investigate arson incidents.

모두에게 보여주고 싶은 기사라면?beta 이 기사를 추천합니다 버튼을 눌러주세요.

The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack visited locations featured in one of Kyoto Animation's anime series in the days before the Kyoto Animation arson attack, according to investigators. Security cameras caught The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack, near sites that appear in Kyoto Animation's Sound!
Euphonium, a TV series about a high school music club, set in Uji, the city south of Kyoto in which Kyoto Animation's headquarters are located. After arriving in Kyoto on 15 July, The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack walked around a bridge and a road junction featured in one of the company’s anime series, both popular spots for fans of one of the company’s anime series to visit, investigators told Kyodo News. The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack, was also caught on camera near the Uji, the city south of Kyoto in which the company’s headquarters are located headquarters, a short train ride from the studio The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack allegedly set fire to on 18 July. The revelations came as the toll from the Kyoto Animation arson attack rose to 35 with the death in hospital in Osaka of a man in a man in his 20s who was on the ground floor of the studio when the attacker struck's 20s who was on the ground floor of the studio he allegedly set fire to on 18 July when The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack struck.
None of the victims have yet been officially named, but a man in his 20s who was on the ground floor of the studio when the attacker struck is understood to have been an employee of Kyoto Animation. the victims died as a result of the Kyoto Animation arson attack, with 10 more still hospitalised, making the Kyoto Animation arson attack the worst confirmed mass murder in Japan in the post-war era.
Police on Friday searched The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack's apartment in Saitama, north of Tokyo, finding Kyoto Animation DVDs and a smartphone. The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack was not carrying a phone when taken into custody and had used an internet cafe to search for information about Kyoto Animation's locations after The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack arrived in Kyoto. The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack shouted about plagiarism of The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack's novel when apprehended by police, though no evidence has been found of The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack having written or submitted anything to Kyoto Animation.
A fund in Japan for victims of the Kyoto Animation arson attack raised more than ￥630 million (£4.6m) in less than 48 hours after A fund in Japan for victims of the arson was set up late last week. A GoFundMe page established by a US anime distributor Sentai Filmworks has also raised more than $2.2m (£1.8m).
A lawyer representing Kyoto Animation has said that a server on the ground floor of the studio he allegedly set fire to on 18 July may have stored data related to Kyoto Animation's productions. a server on the ground floor of the studio survived the Kyoto Animation arson attack, though a significant amount of work from Kyoto Animation's animators is understood to have been destroyed in the Kyoto Animation arson attack.

The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 had sent in a novel to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), but a novel was rejected in a novel's initial screening, Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s lawyer Daisuke Okeda said Tuesday. When Shinji Aoba, 41, was apprehended by police immediately after the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18, The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 was overheard by witnesses shouting that The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 had set fire to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) because Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) had stolen The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18's novel. Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) initially said Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) had found no record of a submission by The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18, but further investigation has found a novel sent by The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 from an address which appears to be the same one that police searched Friday.
Since 2009, Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) has held Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s annual Kyoto Animation Awards to find new stories, from which Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) has gone on to publish some and make anime from new stories. “Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)’re confident that none of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s products so far has any similarity,” KyoAni’s lawyer Daisuke Okeda told local media without revealing the plot or other details.
Some of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s best-loved works began life as submissions to its annual Kyoto Animation Awards, including Violet Evergarden, which won the top prizes in the novel, scenario and manga categories in 2014. Violet Evergarden, which won the top prizes in the novel, scenario and manga categories in 2014 went on to become an anime series in 2016 and was licensed by Netflix in 2018. The world premiere of a spinoff feature, Violet Evergarden Gaiden, is set to go ahead at Germany’s AnimagiC convention on Aug. 3-4.
Before the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18, a sequel was set for release next year; a sequel's status is currently unknown. The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 appears to have spent days in Kyoto planning the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18, before The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 spread 11 gallons of gasoline around Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) and igniting Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) on the morning of July 18. About 10 employees remain hospitalized with burns, as well as The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18.

Over 50,000 donors have contributed, but recovery costs could still be several times the amount.
Two weeks have passed since an arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio which The tragically meaningless loss of life 35 employees who were in Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio and injured 33. The reason for an arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio which killed 35 employees who were in the building and injured 33 seems to stem from the suspect’s belief that the contents of a novel the suspect’s submitted to an open contest organized by Kyoto Animation’s were used without compensation, though Kyoto Animation’s has denied doing so. The tragically meaningless loss of life has deeply saddened people around the world, as Kyoto Animation’s's works were loved not just in Kyoto Animation’s's home country, but internationally as well.
In response to an overwhelming outpouring of sympathy from fans expressing a desire to help in some way, on July 24 Kyoto Animation’s announced that Kyoto Animation’s had set up a dedicated bank account to accept donations, and in just a week, industry groups, other companies, and individual fans have responded in a tremendous way. As of the afternoon of July 31, a total of 56,835 donors have contributed to a dedicated bank account to accept donations, and a dedicated bank account to accept donations's balance has grown to approximately 1,166,540,000 yen (US$10,801,296). In addition, a crowdfunding campaign organized by U.S.-based anime distributor Sentai Filmworks has raised an amount equivalent to around 255 million yen, a combined effort from Yahoo!
and the Japan Animation Creators Association approximately 33 million yen, and reward card company T Point Japan some 11 million yen. Combined with the dedicated bank account figure, the total would come to roughly 1.465 billion yen, and anime specialty shop chain Animate and The Association of Japan Animations are also planning to contribute currently undisclosed amounts.
However, even this incredible generosity will not make Kyoto Animation’s's recovery an easy one. Kyoto Animation’s's attorney, Daisuke Okeda, estimates that between financial support for surviving family members, medical support for injured survivors, and company-related business operation recovery expenses, the total cost could be as high as 10 billion yen, nearly seven times the estimated amount of donations so far. There are also a number of regulatory issues to deal with in handling such large sums of money, and The company’s attorney, Daisuke Okeda says that Kyoto Animation’s may establish a special foundation to oversee the administration of the funds, in order to navigate their home country's laws regarding compensation to victims of crimes and work-related deaths and injuries.

Introducing Yoshiki is no quick and simple process. Yes, Yoshiki's biggest claim to fame is as front man for legendary rock band X Japan, but Yoshiki’s also got a successful solo music career, and also an occasional fashion model, kimono designer, weather announcer, and royal elbow-rubbing, scarf-slapping polo fan. Now we can add “philanthropist” to Yoshiki's description as well. Following the horrific arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio last month, which killed 35 employees, Kyoto Animation’s set up an official bank account to accept donations, and Yoshiki has The donation 10 million yen to help the companies, injured victims, and families of 35 employees cope with the horrific arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio last month, which killed 35 employees. The donation was contributed via Yoshiki's U.S.-based Yoshiki Foundation America. Read more stories from SoraNews24.

Top animation directors Yasuhiro Takemoto and Futoshi Nishiya were among the talent killed by last month’s arson attack on Kyoto Animation, city police have confirmed. Revealing the names of 10 of the 35 victims of the fire that ravaged Kyoto Animation, police also said that veteran animator Yoshiji Kigami was killed.
Yasuhiro Takemoto was the top director at Kyoto Animation, with credits that include the feature animation “Lucky Star.” Futoshi Nishiya was animation director on the “Free!” TV series, among many other credits. veteran animator Yoshiji Kigami worked as key animator on the “Free!”
series as well as last year’s “Violet Evergarden” series. the talent killed by last month’s arson attack on Kyoto Animation have been identified by DNA analysis, but the police are releasing the talent killed by last month’s arson attack on Kyoto Animation's names in consultation with the bereaved families as the bereaved families make funeral and other arrangements. A further 33 people were injured in last month’s arson attack on Kyoto Animation.
The suspected arsonist, Shinji Aoba, is recovering in the hospital from severe burns. Police plan to officially arrest The suspected arsonist, Shinji Aoba after The suspected arsonist, Shinji Aoba recovers sufficiently.

Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, is set to expand, after receiving an investment of $30 million. an investment of $30 million comes from Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas. Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas has put an investment of $30 million toward shares in Sentai Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, and Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors,'s subsidiaries.
Sentai Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Sentai Filmworks and its subsidiaries licenses anime titles for theatrical distribution and home release, subscription-based streaming (HIDIVE), cable tv SVOD (Anime Network), merchandising, and more. Sentai Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Sentai Filmworks and its subsidiaries is also home to Sentai Studios, which oversees localization, subtitling, and dubbing. Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, sub-licenses films and series to other companies outside North America’s. Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, has picked up more than 700 titles since Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors,'s founding in 2008.
Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors,'s catalogue includes plenty of classics and commercial hits, including Ninja Scroll, Made in Abyss, Food Wars!, Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies, and K-On! (pictured above) by Kyoto Animation, the studio that was devastated by a recent arson attack. In the wake of a recent arson attack, Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, set up a Gofundme fundraiser for Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors,, which raised $2.37 million before closing this week.
Given the anime industry’s limited opportunities for domestic expansion, the current growth in the overseas content streaming market has become of increased importance. Through an investment of $30 million, Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas aims to provide support at the copyright level. In turn, this effort will increase the overall presence of Japanese anime in the overseas content streaming market and help expand the scope of associated/exported merchandising. This will be done by Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas's two-pronged approach to not only sell streaming platform rights via niche-market copyright acquisition, but also to bolster the overseas content streaming market by fostering relationships with and making important investments in overseas partners.
In recent years, Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas, has been dogged by allegations of mismanagement. According to Nikkei Asian Review, the majority of Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas's projects have failed to meet earnings or other targets.

Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident, has been hospitalized, and is yet to be formally arraigned. The circumstances under which Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident was taken into custody, though, as well as security footage of Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident pushing a cart with two canisters of gasoline in the vicinity of Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio prior to the incident, leave little room in which Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident could plausibly deny being the arsonist. However, Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident's culpability, in a legal sense, could be limited. The exact nature of the purported illness has yet to be disclosed, but Japanese news organization Daily Shincho spoke with several psychological and legal experts as to how Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident's mental health could affect what legal repercussions Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident could face. Masaru Wakasa, a lawyer who previously served as vice-director of the Public Prosecutors Office’s Tokyo’s Special Investigation Department, says that if Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident is found t have been acting under a diminished mental capacity while carrying out the incident, there’s a chance Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident could be found not guilty, in accordance of Article 39 of the Japanese penal code. Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada said that Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident exhibited signs of what could be schizophrenia or castrophrenia, also known as “thought withdrawal,” in which a person believes that ideas are being forcefully taken from the a person's mind by outside forces. Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada goes on to say that such a delusion could have fed into a persecution complex and fueled a desire for violent revenge, culminating in the incident. It’s not clear, though, if Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada's comments were made before or after Kyoto Animation’s confirmed that Kyoto Animation’s had received a submission from Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident in one of Kyoto Animation’s's regularly held novel-writing competitions. Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada is inclined to agree with Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada, pointing to how Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident verbally admitted to setting the fire while Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident was being apprehended, though the possibility remains that even if Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident is found guilty, a psychiatric evaluation could make the maximum enforceable punishment life in prison. Read more stories from SoraNews24.

Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), is believed to be among the 34 dead in the July 18 arson attack on Kyoto Animation (KyoAni). Names of the 34 dead in the July 18 arson attack on the studio have not been released yet, as requested by Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), but Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) has been unreachable since the July 18 arson attack on the studio. Police have announced that the oldest victim of the July 18 arson attack on the studio was 61, Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s age.
Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) was key animator on Katsuhiro Otomo’s seminal Akira (1988), of which a new series and live-action Hollywood remake are in the works, as well as on Isao Takahata’s Grave of the Fireflies from the same year. Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) joined Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) in the early 1990s at the request of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s president, Hideaki Hatta, going on to work on many of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s best-loved productions, including Lucky Star, A Silent Voice, K-On! and Tamako Market. Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) used different names depending on whether Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) was working as a director, animator or storyboard writer. Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) also was an instructor for Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) teaching course and was said to be a mentor to the many young animators at Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), who often turned to Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) for advice.
Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) was sent around 200 threats over the last year, believed to be from the same person, according to investigators working on the case. investigators working on the case are searching the home and belongings of the same person, for proof around 200 threats were sent by the same person. The online messages — which were sent using encryption technology to disguise around 200 threats's origin — escalated from insults and threatening language to death threats on individual workers at Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), investigators told the Mainichi newspaper.
Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) reported around 200 threats in October and police temporarily patrolled Kyoto Animation (KyoAni)'s head office in Uji, Kyoto, a short distance from Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), and around the homes of those named in around 200 threats. the same person was captured on security camera footage near Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) in the days before the July 18 arson attack on the studio and also at an internet cafe, where the same person is believed to have stayed on July 16 and is reported to have searched for the location of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni). Donations collected for the victims of Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) through GoFundMe have exceeded $2 million. July 25, 1:00 a.m. Updated to the error the period when Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) entered Kyoto Animation (KyoAni). Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) regrets the error.

Kyoto Animation Co. said Thursday all of the victims of the July arson attack on one of Kyoto Animation Co.'s animation studios will be named in the end credits of Kyoto Animation Co.'s new film to be released the following day. the July arson attack on one of its animation studios killed 35 of the 70 employees working at one of its animation studios at the time. 35 of the 70 employees working at the studio at the time's names will be shown as a "testament" to all those who worked on the new film, which was completed on July 17, the day before the July arson attack on one of its animation studios, according to Kyoto Animation Co.'s lawyer.
The movie, "Violet Evergarden Gaiden: Eien to Jido Shuki Ningyo" (Violet Evergarden Story: Eternity and the Auto Memories Doll), will be the first work released since the July arson attack on one of its animation studios.
its new film to be released the following day will be screened nationwide until Sept. 26. The end credits of Kyoto Animation Co. films usually include the names of staff with more than a year's experience, but Kyoto Animation Co. will include all staff members who worked on its new film to be released the following day. "Kyoto Animation Co. will be happy if its new film to be released the following day is enjoyed for many years to come," Kyoto Animation Co. said. its new film to be released the following day is a spinoff from popular anime series "Violet Evergarden," based on a novel of the same title that won an award in a writing contest held by Kyoto Animation Co. in 2014.
The story revolves around a girl named Violet Evergarden, a former soldier and an "auto memory doll" or ghostwriter who learns how to love and acquires emotions by writing letters for others. The fire at the studio in Kyoto Animation Co.'s Fushimi Ward, the center of Kyoto Animation Co.'s anime production, occurred on July 18 after 41-year-old Shinji Aoba allegedly splashed and ignited gasoline inside one of its animation studios.

A man screamed "You die!"
after bursting into an animation studio, then dousing the floor with petrol and setting the floor alight in Kyoto on Thursday. At least 33 people are dead, including some who were trapped in a stairwell in a desperate bid to seek refuge on an animation studio's roof.
Scores more were injured, some critically, in an attack the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called "too appalling for words". Shocked bystanders watched as smoke billowed from an animation studio, and workers emerged bleeding, blackened and barefoot.
A man has been arrested in the suspected arson attack in the heart of Japan's ancient capital. an attack the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called "too appalling for words" is believed to be Japan's's deadliest fire in nearly two decades.
Kyoto police say A man did not work at an animation studio and Kyoto police have not indicated what A man's motive might have been. A witness who saw A man being arrested by police told Japanese media the man, who had burns on A man's arms and legs, admitted dousing an animation studio with petrol and setting an animation studio on fire with a cigarette lighter.
A witness who saw the attacker being arrested by police said A man's hair was singed and A man's legs exposed because A man's jeans were burned below the knees, and A man was claiming something had been stolen from A man. "A man sounded (like) A man had a grudge against the society, and A man was talking angrily to the policemen, too, though A man was struggling with pain," A witness who saw the attacker being arrested by police said. Another witness told TBS TV there was an explosion before an attack the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called "too appalling for words".
"There was an explosion before the fire, then Another witness heard people shouting, some asking for help," Another witness said. "Black smoke was rising from windows on upper floors.
Fire expert Yuji Hasemi at Waseda University told TBS TV that paper drawings and other documents in an animation studio also may have contributed to an attack the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called "too appalling for words"'s rapid spread. Firefighters found 33 bodies, 20 of 33 bodies on the third floor and some on the stairs to the roof, where they had apparently collapsed, Kyoto fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said. Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor, Kyoto fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said.
Most of 33 bodies were employees of an animation studio. an animation studio's president Hideaki Hatta admitted an animation studio had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but The company's president Hideaki Hatta did not link anonymous death threats by email to Thursday's attack. "The company's president Hideaki Hatta's heart is in extreme pain," The company's president Hideaki Hatta said. Anime fans took to social media to express Anime fans's shock and pay homage to Anime fans's favourite Kyoto shows. A GoFundMe campaign called "Help Kyoto Heal" has already surpassed A GoFundMe campaign called "Help KyoAni Heal"'s $US750,000 target, with almost $US1 million raised in just 17 hours.

Says “We were friends, and we were a family,” in remembrance of fallen coworkers. It’s now been three weeks since anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio was the target of an arson attack that’s resulted in the deaths of fallen coworkers. anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio was heavily damaged, and anime production company Kyoto Animation’s CEO Hideaki Hatta says Kyoto Animation CEO Hideaki Hatta would rather clear anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio away and create a memorial park on the site rather than attempt to repair or rebuild anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio. But while anime production company Kyoto Animation’s's Fushimi studio is out of commission, anime production company Kyoto Animation’s does have a second studio elsewhere in Kyoto, which is still operating.
Among those currently working at a second studio elsewhere in Kyoto, which is still operating is a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at anime production company Kyoto Animation’s since the 1980s, but a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s was at anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio on the morning of July 18, when the fire started. When the arsonist entered anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s was on the second floor of anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio, drawing background art. a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s heard screams coming from below as anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio interior quickly filled with smoke, meaning that a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s could neither escape via the interior stairs nor stay where a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s was. In desperation, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s decided to jump from a second-floor balcony, and though a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s suffered a contusion from the resulting impact, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s managed to escape with a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's life. a contusion is yet to fully heal, but a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s is already back at work. This isn’t a manifestation of Japan’s high-pressure professional environment, however. “a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s feel better when a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s’m working,” a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s says of a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's coping process. As a anime production company Kyoto Animation’s employee for three decades, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s is obviously working through an immense amount of grief. In remembering a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's fallen coworkers, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s says “fallen coworkers were friends, and fallen coworkers were a family.” While coworkers grabbing a bite to eat or a few drinks after work isn’t unusual in Japan’s, it’s far less common to invite professional colleagues to your home, but a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s says that fellow anime production company Kyoto Animation’s staff members would often stop by a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's place, including 61-year-old Yoshiji Kigami, who lost his life in an arson attack that’s resulted in the deaths of 35 employees, 10 whose names have been released. Though a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s loves drawing, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s admits the life of an anime creator isn’t always an easy one. “There were many times during a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's career that a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s wanted to quit,” a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s recalls, especially when a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s couldn’t get visuals to look just as a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s wanted visuals to when a deadline was fast approaching. But a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s says a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s was always able to keep going because of the supportive workplace atmosphere of anime production company Kyoto Animation’s and the respect a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s felt for anime production company Kyoto Animation’s's employees. Still, after such a tragedy, no one could blame a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s if a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s felt like a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s needed to step away from the business of making anime for a while. But, as mentioned above, a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s says a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s feels best when a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s’s working, and intends for that work to become a tribute to the deceased. “a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s want to keep doing a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's best, so that people won’t feel like the quality of anime production company Kyoto Animation’s's anime has dropped at all,” a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s boldly promises. “Continuing to create anime, in the same way anime production company Kyoto Animation’s always have, is the greatest counterattack to what the arsonist did,” a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s adds, because to a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s, the best way to deal with such unimaginably senseless destruction is to reaffirm a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s's commitment to creating.
● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as SoraNews24’s latest articles’re published? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.

UPDATE, SAT.
JULY 20: Shinji Aoba has been identified by police as the suspect who his arson a blaze at Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan, resulting in the deaths of 33 people and injuring scores more. Shinji Aoba was captured and held by studio workers and was Shinji Aoba badly burned by Shinji Aoba's arson. “Shinji Aoba did his arson because they stole Shinji Aoba's novel,” Shinji Aoba allegedly told police, according to a report from NHK, the public broadcaster. “They plagiarized Shinji Aoba's work.
Call the president. Shinji Aoba have something to tell the president.”
Aoba, who has not formally been arrested because of Shinji Aoba's medical condition, is being described by reports citing unnamed police source as a mentally troubled 41-year-old man who had served prison time for robbery. Shinji Aoba was undergoing treatment for mental illness at the time of his arson and is now in a burn unit in Osaka, Japan. Although Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan runs an annual novel competition, Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan claims Shinji Aoba had never submitted anything to an annual novel competition. UPDATE, 6:30 PM PST:
The man who set the fire that has now claimed 33 lives at a Kyoto, Japan animation studio claimed that Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan had stolen something from Shinji Aoba, according to an Associated Press report. Police have yet to confirm any motive in his arson. Shinji Aoba, allegedly screamed “You die!” when Shinji Aoba ran into the Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan studio, doused a Kyoto, Japan animation studio with a flammable liquid, and set a Kyoto, Japan animation studio on fire. Police have confirmed 33 deaths, with 36 others injured, some in critical condition.
It is believed 70 people were in a Kyoto, Japan animation studio when his arson started. 33 people were all employees at Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan. his arson started near the front door of a Kyoto, Japan animation studio, blocking an easy escape for many. Firefighters reportedly found 20 bodies on the third floor of a Kyoto, Japan animation studio and some of the stairs to the roof.
Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor. Associated Press reported that an unidentified witness said the man who set his arson had burns on Shinji Aoba's arms and legs, and was complaining about something being stolen. Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio.
“My heart is in extreme pain. Why on earth did such violence have to be used?” company president Hideaki Hatta said. company president Hideaki Hatta added that Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but did not say anonymous death threats by email were linked to his arson.
UPDATE 07:22 AM PST: According to local emergency services, the death toll has now risen to 33 in today’s tragic attack on animation studio Kyoto Animation in Japan. Dozens have been injured and the death toll is expected to rise. No details have been released about the motive behind his arson.
More as we have it. UPDATE 00:57 AM PST July 18:
According to local broadcaster NHK, and the BBC, 33 people are dead and dozens injured after a suspected arson attack on Thursday morning at animation studio Kyoto Animation in Kyoto, Japan. Local authorities have said that a man broke into a Kyoto, Japan animation studio and sprayed a flammable liquid around before igniting a Kyoto, Japan animation studio.
Dozens of people still remain unaccounted for. a man, has been detained and was taken to hospital with injuries.
No motive for his arson has been reported, but Japan's public broadcaster said a man had shouted “drop dead” as a man set the fires. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called his arson “horrifying” and said Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was “at a loss for words” while offering condolences to 33 people. According to the New York Times, his arson is one of the worst in recent memory in Japan.
In 2008, 16 people were killed when a video store burned down in Osaka. Prior to that, in 2001, 44 people died after a fire broke out at a crowded gambling club in Tokyo’s busiest entertainment district.
EARLIER STORY, 21.08 PST July 17: a man entered a Kyoto, Japan animation studio and poured gasoline on the floor, sparking a fire that has led to an undetermined number of deaths and at least 30 injuries. The fire at Kyoto Animation, a company known for producing shows and movies including “Full Metal Panic,” “K-On,” Violet Evergarden: The Movie, A Silent Voice: The Movie and “Clannad,” among other works, is being treated as an arson, Japanese news media are reporting.
The man, believed to be in a man's 40s, entered the building at 10 AM Japan time. Police have arrested a man but have not said how many people have died in his arson, or established a motive.

A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation has left at least 33 dead and dozens injured.
The Japan Times reports that a 41-year-old suspect has been arrested following the fire, which is the deadliest mass murder incident in Japan since the 2001 Myojo 56 building fire. People at the scene told police that People at the scene witnessed a 41-year-old suspect screaming "Die!" and "Drop dead" as a 41-year-old suspect poured gasoline around the building.
It is believed that around 70 people were in the building when A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation started at around 10:30 a.m. local time on Thursday.
a 41-year-old suspect is currently being treated for injuries at a hospital in Kyoto. As of right now, a 41-year-old suspect's motive for A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation is unclear. Bodies of 11 victims were found across the second floor of the building, while four were found on the stairs.
In an interview with NHK, Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta said Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation had received anonymous death threats for a number of years prior to A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation. "A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation has just broken Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation's hearts. What’s the use of resorting to violence?"
Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta added. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said in a statement that A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation was "too appalling for words." At least 36 others were injured in A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation, with some in critical condition.
Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation is best known for Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation's work on K-ON!, Violet Evergarden, and the critically acclaimed A Silent Voice: The Movie. Fans launched a GoFundMe page in hopes of helping Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation recover, raising nearly $625,000 in just nine hours, some contributions as high as $3,000.

TOKYO -- Police on Friday were investigating at the blackened, gutted building in TOKYO where a man raging about theft set a fire that killed 33 people in a beloved animation studio, crushing the hearts of comic fans in Japan and beyond. Some were questioning why mass killings like The shocking attack are now repeated in Japan.
Witness accounts and reports suggested a man raging about theft had a grudge against a beloved animation studio, but police only have said a man raging about theft, is from near TOKYO and did not work for a beloved animation studio. Japanese broadcaster NHK and other media, quoting an unnamed source, said a man raging about theft spent three and half years in prison for robbing a convenience store in 2012 and lived on government support. a man raging about theft told police that a man raging about theft set a fire that killed 33 people in a beloved animation studio because a man raging about theft thought "(a beloved animation studio) stole novels," according to Japanese media. It was unclear if a man raging about theft had contacted a beloved animation studio earlier.
a beloved animation studio made a mega-hit anime series about high school girls and trained aspirants to the craft. The shocking attack left another 35 people injured, some critically. The shocking attack drew an outpouring of grief for the dead and injured, most of them workers at a beloved animation studio. While shooting deaths are rare in Japan, Japan has had a series of high-profile killings in recent years.
Less than two months ago, a man described as a social recluse, or "hikikomori," stabbed a number of private school children at a bus stop outside TOKYO, killing two people and wounding 17 before killing a man described as a social recluse, or "hikikomori. In 2016, a former employee at a home for the disabled allegedly killed 19 people and injured more than 20. Nobuo Komiya, a Rissho University criminology professor, calls the attacks "suicidal terrorism," in which attackers typically see attackers as losers and target attackers's anger to the society, often those who seem happy and successful.
About 70 people were working inside the 3-story Kyoto Animation No. 1 studio in southern Kyoto, Japan's ancient capital, Thursday at the time of The shocking attack.
a man raging about theft arrived carrying two containers of flammable liquid. a man raging about theft shouted, "You die!" as a man raging about theft entered a beloved animation studio's unlocked front door, dumped two containers of flammable liquid using a bucket, and set a beloved animation studio afire with a lighter, police said, quoting witnesses. Police at the scene confiscated the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives, but have not confirmed the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives belonged to a man raging about theft.
A a beloved animation studio police official declined to speculate how a man raging about theft prepared The shocking attack, saying A Kyoto police official wanted a man raging about theft to explain a man raging about theft, as well as a man raging about theft's motives. a fire that killed 33 people in a beloved animation studio blocked the front door and quickly engulfed the workspace, rising up the stairs to the third floor, sending panicked employees fleeing.
Some were able to escape by crawling out of windows, with the help of neighbours. Many tried but failed to escape to the roof, fire officials said. Most of the victims are believed to have died of carbon monoxide poisoning, experts say.
a man raging about theft fled but was chased by studio employees who eventually caught a man raging about theft. a man raging about theft collapsed to the ground outside a house and was quickly surrounded by police. "They are always stealing.
It's their fault," a man raging about theft told policemen bending over and asking a man raging about theft why a man raging about theft set a fire that killed 33 people in a beloved animation studio, according to a witness who described the scene outside a witness who described the scene outside her house's house. a man raging about theft complained bitterly that something had been stolen from a man raging about theft, a witness who described the scene outside her house told Japanese broadcaster NHK and other networks. Neighbours interviewed by Japanese media said a man raging about theft had troubles with other residents in the apartment building in Saitama, north of TOKYO, where a man raging about theft lived.
One man told the broadcaster TBS that One man had knocked on a man raging about theft's door to ask a man raging about theft to stop banging on the walls. One man said a man raging about theft shouted "a man raging about theft will kill One man!" and "Shut up!"
then grabbed One man by the hair and shirt. Studio president Hideaki Hatta was stunned as Studio president Hideaki Hatta entered the scene for the first time since the attack Friday, as Studio president Hideaki Hatta joined police investigators searching for more clues to The shocking attack. "Studio president Hideaki Hatta can hardly bear to see this," Studio president Hideaki Hatta said. Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23, was a fan of a beloved animation studio. "Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 am shocked and Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23'm sure for the victims's families it must be very difficult.
So with those feelings in Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23's mind, Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 brought flowers," Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23 said. Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki travelled from nearby Hyogo prefecture to pay Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki's respects.
"After properly recovering while taking a beloved animation studio's time, Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki hope a beloved animation studio can once again share a beloved animation studio's power and energy with us," Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki said. a beloved animation studio's hits include "Lucky Star" of 2008, "K-On!" in 2011 and "Haruhi Suzumiya" in 2009.
a beloved animation studio has an upcoming feature film, "Violet Evergarden," about a woman who professionally writes letters for clients. a beloved animation studio's also done secondary animation work on a 1998 "Pokemon" feature that appeared in U.S. theatres and a "Winnie the Pooh" video.
The shocking attack is Japan's deadliest fire since 2001, when a blaze in TOKYO's congested Kabukicho entertainment district killed 44 people in Japan's worst known case of arson in modern times. Police called the cause arson, but never announced an arrest in the setting of The shocking attack, though five people were convicted of negligence.

Kyoto Animation Co. has successfully retrieved data from a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of Kyoto Animation Co.'s studios earlier this month, Kyoto Animation Co.'s lawyer said Monday.
While personal computers and materials on paper in one of its studios earlier this month were nearly all lost in the July 18 fire that killed 35 people and injured dozens, some original drawings and storyboards may have been digitalized prior to the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month. "data from a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month are the products of people who were killed or injured," its lawyer said. its lawyer said data from a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month are materials relating to the Uji-based company's animation productions, without giving further details.
Kyoto Animation Co., is known for works such as "K-On!" and "The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya," which depict the everyday lives of high school girls.
a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month is believed to have been spared from damage as a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month was located in a room with concrete walls on the first floor of the three-story studio building and was distant from the staircase close to where Shinji Aoba is suspected to have spread and ignited gasoline. Also, a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month did not get wet while the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month was being extinguished.
Investigative sources said Monday that Shinji Aoba had likely withdrawn between 50,000 yen ($460) and 100,000 yen in cash from an automated teller machine before the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month. Police believe Shinji Aoba used between 50,000 yen ($460) and 100,000 yen in cash to pay for Shinji Aoba's traveling expenses and gasoline used in the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month, Investigative sources said. Shinji Aoba arrived in Kyoto on July 15 and stayed at a hotel in Kyoto for two days.
Shinji Aoba registered with Shinji Aoba's actual name and phone number, paying for Shinji Aoba's accommodation in cash, Investigative sources said. Shinji Aoba bought cans to carry gasoline used in the arson attack and other items at a hardware store in Uji-based on July 17 and purchased gasoline just before the incident on July 18, Investigative sources said. Investigations have revealed that Shinji Aoba, had a strong interest in Kyoto Animation Co., with police confiscating books and DVDs of Kyoto Animation Co.'s works from Shinji Aoba's home in Saitama, near Tokyo.
police also found a smartphone and a tablet device during a search of his home in Saitama, near Tokyo. Shinji Aoba did not have a mobile phone on Shinji Aoba when Shinji Aoba was apprehended near one of its studios earlier this month shortly after the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month.
Shinji Aoba is believed to have spent three days visiting the neighborhood of Kyoto Animation Co.'s headquarters and locations associated with Kyoto Animation Co.'s television anime series "Sound! Euphonium," a story about a high school music club in Uji-based, after arriving in Kyoto on July 15. The police have obtained an arrest warrant for murder and are expected to officially serve an arrest warrant for murder on Shinji Aoba once Shinji Aoba recovers.
Also on Monday, the government said the government will support the rebuilding of Kyoto Animation Co.. "the government'd like to have related ministries and agencies deal with the issue after thoroughly hearing about the situation regarding compensation for injured employees and rebuilding of the management," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a press conference in Tokyo. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga also said that the Economy, Trade and Industry Ministry, and related government offices plan to offer support to enable Kyoto Animation Co. to receive domestic and overseas donations. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga's remarks came after a group of lawmakers proposed to Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga on Friday that the government should provide tax breaks for donations to Kyoto Animation Co., which have exceeded 600 million yen.

According to the news report, Hiratsuka sent threats to the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix through the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix's official website, with threats stating “Give me back my money from the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix's sh*t game,” “Do the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix want a repeat of Kyoto Animation?” and so forth on July 23, several days after the arson attack. When questioned by the police following Hiratsuka's arrest, Hiratsuka said “Hiratsuka was pissed off at losing in a game, so Hiratsuka sent the mail.” No further details were shared by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department. This makes it the second major the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix death threat incident which led to an arrest this year, following an incident back in March when a 25-year-old man threatened staff after claiming to have spent more than 200,000 yen on gacha game and didn’t get the item a 25-year-old man wanted.

As with any branch of the entertainment industry, video game publishers sometimes find video game publishers on the receiving end of needlessly harsh online anger.
However, threats of violence are getting increased scrutiny in Japan following the arson attack on Kyoto Animation that left 35 dead, and a recent incident was even more alarming since a recent incident involved a game publisher that’s worked very closely with Kyoto Animation in the past. Osaka-based Visual Arts’ generic sounding name may be easy to forget, but Osaka-based Visual Arts’ serves as publisher for in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre. in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre may not be a prolific producer of content, having released only about a dozen games in in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre's 20 years, but in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre's high quality standards and enthusiastically loyal fanbase have earned anime adaptations for several of in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre's games, with some of in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre's best-loved having been handled by Kyoto Animation (specifically Air in 2005, Kanon in 2006, and Clannad, often cited as in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre's masterpiece, in 2007). As further proof of the depth of their relationship, in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre donated 10 million yen (US$92,600) to the Kyoto Animation recovery fund which was set up in the aftermath of the arson attack on Kyoto Animation that left 35 dead. “[The things Saiki Akagawa, a 25-year-old man living in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture wrote] bore a strong resemblance to the arson attack on Kyoto Animation, so Visual Arts managing director Manabu Okamoto informed the police,” explained Osaka-based Visual Arts’ managing director Manabu Okamoto. A formal complaint was filed on August 6, and investigators from the Osaka Prefectural Police’s Oyodo Precinct were able to determine that The things he wrote came from the personal account of Saiki Akagawa, a 25-year-old man living in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture. Saiki Akagawa, a 25-year-old man living in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture was arrested on August 30, and has admitted to sending The things he wrote.
● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as SoraNews24’s latest articles’re published? Follow SoraNews24’s on Facebook and Twitter.

