Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri unexpectedly resigned Saturday during a trip to Saudi Arabia, saying his life was in danger, and creating a leadership vacuum in an already politically fractured country. Iran dismissed the reports, accusing the United States and Saudi Arabia of orchestrating the resignation. “Hariri’s resignation was coordinated with US President Donald Trump and Saudi Arabia’s Mohammad bin Salman,” Iranian Foreign Ministry official Hossein Sheikholeslam told the semiofficial Fars News Agency. In his speech, Hariri, a Sunni politician, also pointed to Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon. “Over the past decades, Hezbollah has unfortunately managed to impose a fait accompli in Lebanon by the force of its weapons, which it alleges is a resistance weapon,” Hariri said. Hezbollah Secretary-general Hassan Nasrallah hit back Sunday in a televised speech, pointing to Saudi Arabia. The Hezbollah head also accused Saudi Arabia of writing Hariri’s statement. “We will not comment or discuss the political content of the (Hariri) statement, although the content was cruel and contains big and dangerous accusations, myself and Hezbollah will not discuss the content because we believe it was written by Saudi,” Nasrallah said. While the United States considers Hezbollah a terrorist group, its political wing is the most powerful bloc in Lebanon’s deeply divided coalition government, and several of its politicians are ministers. Lebanese President Michel Aoun, a Christian who’s affiliated with Hezbollah, confirmed he had received a phone call from Hariri about stepping down. Aoun’s office said he would wait for the Prime Minister to return to Beirut to discuss the circumstances of his resignation. In his speech in the Saudi capital, Hariri said the atmosphere in Lebanon was similar to the one that existed 12 years ago right before the assassination of his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. “We live in an atmosphere similar to the atmosphere that prevailed before the assassination of martyr Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, and I sensed what is being woven in secret to target my life,” he said. Hariri’s father was assassinated in February 2005 when a bomb struck his motorcade near the Beirut seafront. A special UN-backed court is trying alleged associates of Hezbollah in absentia in his killing. Hezbollah denies involvement. The assassination was a pivotal event in Lebanon, further fueling the sectarian divisions between Sunni and Shiite Muslims. The Mediterranean country has a large Christian population as well. The death also led to the withdrawal of Syrian troops, deployed in Lebanon between 1976 and 2005. They first came as peacekeepers to help stop Lebanon’s civil war but remained long after the fighting stopped in 1990. Syria has dominated Lebanon’s political scene for much of its post-independence history. The longstanding animosity between two regional powerhouses – Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shiite Iran – was a major factor in Saturday’s developments, said Randa Slim, director of a conflict resolution program at the Middle East Institute in Washington. The fact that Hariri’s announcement was made in Riyadh was an important clue, she said. She also noted Hariri holds dual citizenship in Lebanon and Saudi Arabia. “By going after Hezbollah, by denying Hezbollah a credible Sunni partner in governance, it thus weakens Hezbollah on the home front,” Slim said. Meanwhile the fallout has begun. Bahrain’s government on Sunday called on its citizens to leave Lebanon immediately in the wake of Hariri’s resignation. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also renews its call to all citizens not to travel to the Republic of Lebanon, for their safety, and to avoid any risks they may be exposed (to) as a result of these developments,” said a statement released by Bahrain’s Foreign Ministry. Lebanese President Aoun asked Hariri to become Prime Minister last year. He headed a national unity Cabinet that included Hezbollah. It marked Hariri’s second stint as Prime Minister. Hariri first took office in June 2009. Less than two years later, 11 Hezbollah members of his Cabinet resigned, causing a coalition government to collapse. Under the Lebanese Constitution, the president must be a Maronite Christian, the prime minister a Sunni and the speaker of the Parliament a Shiite Muslim. Earlier this year, Hariri met President Donald Trump at the White House. They spoke about economic issues and the pressure on Lebanon after an influx of 1.5 million displaced Syrians in the country. Trump also warned about the danger of Hezbollah.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia said on Monday that Lebanon had declared war against it because of attacks against the Kingdom by the Lebanese Shi’ite group Hezbollah. Saudi Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan told Al-Arabiya TV that Saad al-Hariri, who announced his resignation as Lebanon’s prime minister on Saturday, had been told that acts of “aggression” by Hezbollah “were considered acts of a declaration of war against Saudi Arabia by Lebanon and by the Lebanese Party of the Devil”.
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah raised the stakes in the growing war of words between Iran and Saudi Arabia on Friday, saying Riyadh efforts to upend the balance of power in Lebanon was effectively a declaration of war against the terror group and its Iranian backers. Mr. Nasrallah said Beirut did not recognize nor accept the sudden resignation on Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri, which Lebanese officials claim was coerced by Saudi Arabia. “The prime minister has not resigned,” Mr. Nasrallah said during a nationally televised address in Lebanon. Mr. Hariri’s announcement over the weekend that he was stepping down as Lebanon’s leader, amid claims of an assassination plot against him by Hezbollah, was “illegal and invalid.” During the address, he also demanded Mr. Hariri return to Lebanon to resume his role as prime minister. Mr. Hariri has not made any public statements or appearances since his announcement Saturday, amid local reports he has been placed under house arrest by Saudi officials. Mr. Hariri was reportedly visited by representatives from the U.S., European Union, France and the United Kingdom, the Washington Post reported. Mr. Hariri’s detention coupled with Riyadh’s increasingly aggressive stance toward Lebanon, which has long been Tehran’s strongest regional bulwark against the kingdom’s influence in the region, is proof that Saudi forces are looking for a fight in Lebanon. Riyadh “has declared war on Lebanon & Hezbollah,” Mr. Nasrallah said, adding that “any offense to the Lebanese prime minister is an offense to all Lebanese.” Hezbollah and the Lebanese government had been engaged in a power-sharing deal brokered by Mr. Hariri when he took office last December. Riyadh further stoked fears of open conflict in Lebanon on Thursday, when the country’s foreign ministry ordered all Saudi nationals to leave the country. “Due to the situations in the Republic of Lebanon, the official source at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are asked to leave the country as soon as possible,” said an official statement from Riyadh. The order came a day before U.S. Central Command officials confirmed a medium-range missile fired on Riyadh by Houthi rebels in Yemen belonged to the Iranian military. “What we have seen, clearly from the results of the ballistic missile attacks, that there have been Iranian markings on those missiles, that’s been demonstrated,” Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Harrigian, head of U.S. Air Forces Central Command, told reporters during a briefing in Dubai. “To me that connects the dots to Iran in terms of who’s providing those missiles and that capability,” the three-star general said. A Houthi statement on Yemeni television claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it has targeted King Khalid International Airport, 20 miles north of Riyadh. Saudi officials condemned the attempted missile strike, saying the attack was an act of war by Iran and its proxy forces. • Carlo Muñoz can be reached at cmunoz@washingtontimes.com.
Governments of three Gulf states urge citizens to leave ‘as soon as possible’ and warn against travelling to Lebanon. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait have advised their citizens not to travel to Lebanon and urged those who are in the country to leave as soon as possible. Saudi Arabia’s official news agency SPA quoted a source in the foreign ministry on Thursday as saying: “Due to the situations in the Republic of Lebanon, the official source at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are asked to leave the country as soon as possible. Only hours later, Kuwait and the UAE also urged its nationals to leave Lebanon immediately. Bahrain – an ally of Saudi Arabia – had already ordered its citizens to leave Lebanon on Sunday, with the Bahraini foreign ministry issuing a travel advisory that cited “safety considerations”. Lebanon has been on edge after the sudden resignation of Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday. His whereabouts have since been unknown. However, officials told Al Jazeera on Thursday that Hariri may be under house arrest or temporarily detained in the Saudi capital of Riyadh. Lebanon’s Future Movement party, which is headed by Hariri, demanded on Thursday that the prime minister returns from the kingdom immediately in its sharpest statement yet over his leave of absence. “The return of the Lebanese prime minister, the national leader, Saad al-Hariri, and the head of the Future Movement, is necessary to restore the dignity and respect to Lebanon at home and abroad,” said a former prime minister, Fouad Siniora, in a statement read on TV. Al Jazeera’s correspondent in Lebanon said that the country’s President, Michel Aoun, would soon call for assistance from the international community, the Arab League, the United States, the United Kingdom, China and Russia – to help uncover the reason behind Hariri’s unexpected resignation. Reuters news agency reported on Thursday, citing a senior Lebanese official, that the Lebanese government has not received Hariri’s official resignation papers, and as such still considers him as prime minister. The official added that the restrictions imposed by Saudi Arabia act as an “attack on Lebanon’s leaders”. Riyadh has denied that the prime minister is under house arrest. In his November 4 resignation, Hariri implicitly blamed Iran and its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, for his decision. In his speech, he said that he suspected there were plans to target his life. His father, Rafik Hariri – who also served as prime minister – was killed by in a bomb attack in 2005. Many of Hariri’s supporters blamed the bombing on Hezbollah, which denies it was involved. In his address from Riyadh, Saad al-Hariri said Iran planted “disorder and destruction” in the country and meddled in the internal issues of Lebanon as well as other Arab countries. Referring to Hezbollah, which is backed by Iran, Hariri said, “Iran’s arm … has managed to impose a fait accompli on Lebanon through the power of its weapons” in the last few decades. “They have built a state within a state,” Hariri said from Riyadh. His unexpected move also stoked fears of an escalation in the regional divide between Iran and the Gulf states, primarily Saudi Arabia, with Lebanon on the front lines. Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs, said on Monday that Lebanon’s government would “be dealt with as a government declaring war on Saudi Arabia” because of what he described as “acts of aggression” committed by Hezbollah. In an interview with Al Arabiya, Sabhan said Hezbollah was involved in every “terrorist act” that threatened Saudi Arabia. “The Lebanese must choose between peace or aligning with Hezbollah,” he added, without offering details about what action Riyadh might take against Beirut. Hariri, a leading Sunni politician, has been in office for less than a year, but previously served as prime minister between 2009 and 2011.
The sudden, steep escalation of tensions between Saudi Arabia and Lebanon only got steeper Thursday, when the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs advised the country's citizens to leave Lebanon. The advisory comes just days after Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri announced his resignation in a televised address from Riyadh, the Saudi capital. "Due to the situations in the Republic of Lebanon," read the bulletin in the state-run Saudi Press Agency, a source with the ministry "stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are asked to leave the country as soon as possible. "The Kingdom advised all citizens not to travel to Lebanon from any other international destinations," the bulletin added. Saudi allies Kuwait and Bahrain have issued similar travel warnings of their own this week. But the advisory carries particular significance in Saudi Arabia, where the Lebanese premier read his resignation announcement Saturday. Hariri, who has extensive ties to Saudi Arabia, shocked his country, party and even several of his closest advisers when he did so — and he hasn't set foot back inside Lebanon borders since. In fact, he's left Saudi Arabia just once, visiting the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday and immediately returning. In Lebanon, Hariri's absence has inspired suspicion that he is being held against his will by the Saudis. Citing anonymous state sources, Reuters reports that the Lebanese government believes this, as well. The Saudis have denied that Hariri is under house arrest. For his part, Hariri said in his speech Saturday that he feared an assassination attempt, and that his decision to step down reflected fear for his life. His father, who also served as Lebanon's prime minister, was assassinated in 2005. Still, Hariri's rationale hasn't stifled the churn of speculation back in Lebanon, where power is held by a coalition including Hariri's predominantly Sunni party called the Future Movement and Hezbollah, a Shiite group supported by Iran. Hariri's careful phrasing offers a window onto the political dynamic in the Persian Gulf region. As The Two-Way has noted previously, Saudi Arabia and Iran have been engaged in a tug-of-war over power in the region — and some believe the brash new Saudi crown prince, 32-year-old Mohammad bin Salman, might be dissatisfied by Hariri's lighter touch. Saudi Arabia, which has led airstrikes in Yemen and a blockade of Qatar, has sought to rally its allies in the region — including the UAE — to assert Sunni interests against those of Iran. In Lebanon, Hariri's party issued a statement Thursday declaring that it was "necessary" for him to return in order "to restore Lebanon's dignity and respect," according to The Associated Press. And Lebanese Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil also posted a rather pointed subtweet of his own Thursday. Saudi Arabia has seen its own political upheaval of late. Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman has accelerated a campaign to quash rivals and consolidate power. Just hours after the prince was picked to lead a new anti-corruption commission — and just hours after Hariri announced his resignation — Saudi authorities launched a sweeping roundup in which 11 Saudi princes and other notables were arrested. "A total of 208 individuals have been called in for questioning so far," Saudi Attorney General Sheikh Saud al-Mojeb said in a statement released Thursday by the Saudi Press Agency. He added that seven of those people have been released without charge.
WASHINGTON, Nov 10 (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Friday warned other countries and groups against using Lebanon as vehicle for a larger proxy fight in the Middle East, saying the United States strongly backed Lebanon’s independence. Hariri unexpectedly resigned his post at the weekend from the Saudi Arabian capital of Riyadh and accused Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah of sowing strife in the Arab world. His resignation thrust Lebanon into the front line of a regional competition between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran that has also buffeted Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Bahrain. Tillerson’s backing of Hariri and the Lebanese government contrasted sharply with the approach taken by U.S. ally Saudi Arabia which has lumped Lebanon with Hezbollah as parties hostile to it. “There is no legitimate place or role in Lebanon for any foreign forces, militias or armed elements other than the legitimate security forces of the Lebanese state,” Tillerson said in a statement. Lebanese authorities have said Hariri is being held against his will in Saudi Arabia, a charge that Riyadh has denied. Tillerson earlier said there was no indication Hariri was being held in Saudi Arabia against his will but that Washington was monitoring the situation. Tillerson’s statement said there was no legitimate role in Lebanon for any “foreign forces, militias or armed elements” - an apparent reference to Hezbollah and its regional backer, Iran.
AS IF shuffling one government were too slight a task, Saudi Arabia’s ambitious young crown prince, Muhammad bin Salman, has changed two. On November 4th, the same day as the Saudi purge, Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, unexpectedly appeared on television to announce he was resigning. Although he said he was stepping down because his life was in danger—he denounced Iran and its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah—there was little to disguise the Saudi hand in his statement. The announcement was recorded in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, and broadcast on a Saudi television channel. Since then he has stayed out of reach under Saudi guard and possibly under arrest. A few days earlier the kingdom’s Gulf-affairs minister, Thamer al-Sabhan, had promised “astonishing” developments to topple Hizbullah, a Shia militia-cum-political-party that calls the shots in Lebanon. At first glance Saudi Arabia’s desire to oust Mr Hariri, a Saudi-born Sunni, makes little sense. The kingdom and America had long supported him as a bulwark against Hizbullah. After taking office last December, Mr Hariri passed Lebanon’s first budget since 2005 and secured agreement for the first parliamentary elections since 2009. Tourism in Lebanon has been picking up. Agreements for offshore oil projects were in the offing. With Mr Hariri out of the way, Saudi Arabia can now denounce Lebanon’s government as a stooge of Iran and its Shia proxy. It may have a point. The Taif agreement that ended Lebanon’s long civil war in 1989 disarmed all sectarian militias bar Hizbullah’s. That may have been justifiable when the group was fighting against Israel’s occupation of its self-declared “security zone” in the south. But since Israel withdrew its troops in 2000, the group has torpedoed every political and military attempt to make it lay down its weapons. Rafik Hariri, Saad’s father and a popular former prime minister, was assassinated in 2005 when he tried to disarm the group. Several of its members are being tried in absentia in The Hague, where they are accused of involvement in his murder. And Israel’s efforts to defang Hizbullah during a short war in 2006 ended in stalemate. Since then the group has pushed far beyond its southern confines. In 2008 its militiamen briefly took over the capital, Beirut, and thousands of its fighters have fought against Sunni rebels in Syria. They have returned battle-hardened. Earlier this year they defeated jihadists who flew Islamic State’s black flag over their encampments in Sunni parts of Lebanon’s mountainous north. Now Hizbullah’s green-and-yellow flags flutter above checkpoints on roads between Sunni villages. Its secret policemen round up dissenters and its fighters work closely with the supposedly neutral Lebanese army. No other force—the army included—can match its clout. Yet Saudi talk of removing Hizbullah sounds like little more than bluster. The kingdom is already bogged down in one war with Iranian proxies in Yemen and could not sustain another. And even though Israel worries about Hizbullah’s growing arsenal of rockets and missiles, it will not fight to a Saudi timetable. Still, Saudi Arabia has other cards to play. Without its financial backing, Lebanon will struggle to stave off bankruptcy. Saudi deposits prop up Lebanon’s banks and about 400,000 Lebanese nationals work in the Gulf, sending home a large chunk of the remittances that make up about 14% of Lebanon’s economy. Mr Hariri’s resignation has already sent Lebanese bonds spiralling and prompted warnings of a cut in its credit rating. Financial sanctions that America imposed on Hizbullah in October will further tighten the screws. A donor conference on aid to 1.5m refugees that was expected before the year’s end could be postponed. Hizbullah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, is not one to buckle under pressure. But he may be forced to compromise to salvage the economy. The Saudis hope that popular pressure could force him to give priority to butter over guns. Update (November 16th 2017): The original version of this article said that remittances make up 20% of the Lebanese economy. Estimates vary, but 14% is the latest figure from the World Bank.
France's foreign minister said on Friday he believed that former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was not under house arrest in Saudi Arabia and did not have any particular constraints on his movements. "As far as we know, yes. We think he is free of his movements and it's important he makes his own choices," Jean-Yves Le Drian told Europe 1 radio. France's ambassador to Saudi met Hariri on Thursday before President Emmanuel Macron's unscheduled visit to Riyadh to meet Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, diplomats said. It was unclear whether Macron had any contact with Hariri during his stopover in the Saudi capital. Paris has close ties with Lebanon, a former colony, and with Hariri, who has a home in France after spending several years in the country. Macron said in Dubai on Thursday there had been informal contacts with Hariri, but no request to transfer him to France. "Our concern is the stability of Lebanon and that a political solution can be put in place rapidly," he added. Two top Lebanese government officials said on Thursday that Riyadh was holding Lebanon's Saad al-Hariri captive and a third told Reuters that the Saudi authorities had ordered Hariri to resign while he was in Riyadh last weekend, and put him under house arrest. Le Drian is due in Saudi Arabia on Nov. 16 and is scheduled to also travel to Iran later in the month.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany has no evidence that Saad al-Hariri is being held against his will by Saudi Arabia and believes that the Lebanese prime minister who resigned last week enjoys freedom of movement, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said on Friday. “We have no evidence that Hariri is being detained in Riyadh and we assume that he chooses where he goes,” the spokeswoman said during a regular government news conference. A government spokesman said Germany shared Saudi Arabia’s concerns about Iran’s interference in Yemen and its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and the Lebanese group Hezbollah.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, expressed support on Tuesday for the reasons behind Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s resignation. Hariri, a Saudi ally, resigned abruptly on Nov. 4 in a move Lebanese political leaders ascribed to pressure from Riyadh. Hariri said his resignation had been prompted by an assassination plot and accused Iran and Hezbollah of sowing strife in the region. He denies there are any constraints on his movement. Patriarch Bechara al-Rai met Hariri as well as King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman as part of a trip that was planned well before the Lebanese political crisis brought on by Hariri’s resignation. “Hariri is returning as fast as possible and I support the reasons for his resignation,” Rai was quoted as saying by Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television. Hariri said he was fine and would return to Lebanon in the next two days. On Twitter, he urged Lebanese to remain calm and said his family would stay in Saudi Arabia, calling it “their country”. The events have thrust Lebanon back to the forefront of the conflict between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran. Rai’s trip has come under heightened scrutiny in light of Hariri’s resignation, but an official visit to Saudi Arabia by such a senior non-Muslim cleric is significant as a rare act of religious openness by the conservative Muslim country. The kingdom hosts the holiest sites in Islam and bans the practice of other religions, forcing Christians to risk arrest by praying in private homes. Prince Mohammed says he wants Saudi Arabia to open up more to the world. In addition to imposing radical economic reforms, the 32-year-old heir-apparent has pledged to relax strict social norms and revive a “middle-of-the-road, moderate Islam open to the world and all religions, traditions and people”. Rai heads the Maronite church, which has a presence in Lebanon, Syria and Cyprus and follows an Eastern rite of the Roman Catholic Church. Flanked by Catholic clerics wearing vestments and gold crosses, Rai discussed religious tolerance and combating extremism with the king and his son, the Saudi state news agency said. Prince Mohammed has taken a harder line on Iran since taking on wide-ranging authorities two years ago including as defense minister, with the kingdom waging a two-year-old war in Yemen against Houthi fighters aligned with Iran. He has also pushed for more social freedoms in a country where authority has rested for decades on an enduring accommodation between the royal family and clerics who control the hardline Wahhabi strain of Islam that originated in Saudi Arabia. The powers of the Saudi religious police have been curbed, enforcement of gender segregation has been relaxed and women have been granted some more freedoms, including the right to drive cars starting next year. Rai is the second Christian patriarch to visit the country, after another such trip in 1975. He said the original invitation had been extended in 2013 by the late King Abdullah.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanon’s president called on Saudi Arabia on Saturday to clarify why Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri could not return home, a week after he stunned his country by resigning while in the kingdom. A senior Lebanese official said President Michel Aoun had told foreign ambassadors Hariri had been “kidnapped” and should have immunity. Hariri’s shock resignation has thrust Lebanon back into the frontline of a power struggle between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran - a rivalry that has wrought upheaval in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, and Bahrain. “Lebanon does not accept its prime minister being in a situation at odds with international treaties,” Aoun said in a statement. He said any comment or move by Hariri “does not reflect reality” due to the questions over his status following his resignation in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia. Lebanese authorities believe Riyadh is detaining Hariri who flew to Saudi Arabia on Nov. 3, two top Lebanese government officials, a senior politician close to Hariri and a fourth source have said. French President Emmanuel Macron echoed similar concerns, saying in a call with Aoun on Saturday that “Lebanese political leaders should enjoy freedom of movement”. Macron, who made an unscheduled visit to Riyadh earlier this week, will receive the Lebanese foreign minister in Paris on Tuesday, the Elysee statement said. Riyadh says Hariri is free and decided to resign because Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, was calling the shots in his coalition government. Hariri has made no public remarks since quitting last week, when he said he feared assassination and accused Iran along with Hezbollah of sowing strife in the Arab world. Hariri, whose family made its fortune in the Saudi construction industry, has also given no sign of when he might return to Beirut. The Lebanese premier took part in a ceremony in Riyadh on Saturday welcoming Saudi King Salman from Medina, his media office said. Hariri met with the Turkish and British ambassadors at his Riyadh home in the afternoon, it said. Sources close to Hariri say Saudi Arabia has concluded that the prime minister - a long-time Saudi ally - had to go because he was unwilling to confront Hezbollah. His phone was confiscated after he arrived in Riyadh, and the next day he was forced to resign on a Saudi TV channel, senior sources close to Hariri and top Lebanese political and security officials said. Aoun wants Saudi Arabia, “with which we have brotherly ties and deeply rooted friendship, to clarify the reasons preventing Prime Minister Hariri’s return,” his office said. France and other Western countries have looked on with alarm at the rising tensions in the region. “We would like Saad al-Hariri to have all his freedom of movement and be fully able to play the essential role that is his in Lebanon,” a French foreign ministry spokesman said on Friday. Hariri’s resignation unraveled a political deal among Lebanon’s rival factions that made him prime minister and Aoun, a Hezbollah ally, president last year. The coalition government included Shi’ite Hezbollah, a heavily armed military and political organization. Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said on Friday that Saudi had declared war on Lebanon and his group, accusing Riyadh of forcing Hariri to resign to destabilize Lebanon. The comments mirrored an accusation by Riyadh earlier this week that Lebanon and Hezbollah had declared war on the Gulf Arab kingdom. Hariri’s political party denounced on Saturday Iranian intervention in Arab countries and attacks against Saudi Arabia. In a statement, the United States called Hariri “a trusted partner” and referred to him as prime minister. The White House “rejects any efforts by militias within Lebanon or by any foreign forces to threaten Lebanon’s stability ... or use Lebanon as a base from which to threaten others in the region,” it said. U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson had told reporters on Friday there was no indication Hariri was being held against his will but that the United States was monitoring the situation. The resignation of Hariri comes amid an anti-corruption purge in Riyadh in which dozens of senior princes and businessmen have been rounded up.
French President has invited Saad Hariri and his family to France, and he is expected to leave Saudi Arabia for France within 48 hours, before flying home to Beirut to officially submit his resignation as Lebanese prime minister, a source close to Hariri told Reuters on Thursday. The French intervention has definitely cooled the tempers across the region. Lebanese President Michel Aoun said that he looked forward for stability following Hariri’s acceptance of french invitation. In his tweet he said that he was hoping to find out reason and circumstances of Hariri’s resignation. The entire middle east has been on edge ever since Hariri resigned in a televised address from Saudi Arabia, while being on a sate visit there. The actions that followed created a unique moment of national unity within Lebanon, wherein both the Hezbollah and Sunni Arabs saw actions of Saudis as insult to their nation. With saber rattling across the region, a war between Shia Iran and Sunni Saudi Arabia seemed all but inevitable, however the European behind the scene negotiations seem to have greatly helped towards taking steps towards normalcy. While French insist that the offer is not one of exile, from the looks of it, it is a exile for the PM of Lebanon and the great game goes on.
SAAD HARIRI is an unlikely hero for Lebanon. Despite inheriting a powerful surname—not to mention a vast construction company, Saudi Oger—he often bemoaned his lot. He seemed to live in the shadow of his father, Rafik, a former prime minister, whose assassination in 2005 (probably at the behest of Syria) propelled Saad into politics. But during his own two turns as prime minister (from 2009 to 2011, and 2016 to the present) he accomplished little, as the power of Sunnis, like himself, waned. When Saudi Oger shut down this year, his countrymen had little sympathy. But since his odd televised resignation on November 4th, perhaps under some form of duress in Saudi Arabia, Mr Hariri (pictured) has seen his popularity rise. Many Lebanese, including the country’s president, Michel Aoun, believe he was held against his will in the kingdom. Across Lebanon’s sectarian divide, politicians have championed his return. A website counts the days and hours he has been away. The Arabic hashtag #WeAreAllSaad has appeared on billboards in Beirut. Spectators at the Beirut marathon on November 12th sported banners that read “Running for you” and “We want our PM back”. Much mystery still surrounds the circumstances of Mr Hariri. His announcement surprised even his own staff—and appeared to have been penned by his Saudi patrons. Mr Hariri denounced Iran, the kingdom’s arch-rival, and its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government. When, over a week later, Mr Hariri gave his first interview since his resignation, he appeared to fight back tears as he spoke of the support he was receiving back home. Indeed, Mr Hariri has hinted that he might rescind his resignation. Mr Aoun has said he will not accept it until Mr Hariri returns to Beirut. Even then, parliament may nominate him again as prime minister. Not for the first time Lebanon has become the proxy battleground of outside powers, this time Saudi Arabia, the region’s Sunni champion, and Iran’s Shia regime. For decades, the Saudis poured money into the country only to see Hizbullah become the main political power broker and a potent fighting force. Mr Hariri has done little to curb the group at home or to stop it from supporting Iran’s ambitions in the region. When an Iranian official boasted of his country’s influence in Lebanon after meeting Mr Hariri in Beirut, the Saudis finally snapped, calling the prime minister to Riyadh. Without the figleaf of Mr Hariri as prime minister, Hizbullah’s influence on Lebanon would be exposed—or so hoped the Saudis as they beat the drums of war. Its officials blamed Iran and Hizbullah for a missile fired at Riyadh from Yemen on November 4th. It was intercepted, but the Saudi government nevertheless called it an “act of war”. On November 9th it told Saudis to leave Lebanon at once, raising concerns of an imminent descent into chaos, or even an attack. The Lebanese held their breath. But if Saudi Arabia’s plan was to lure Israel and America, which lists Hizbullah as a terrorist group, into a war in Lebanon, it miscalculated. Israel, though deeply concerned about Hizbullah’s growing armoury, appeared wary of being sucked into another conflict in Lebanon. American and European officials publicly urged Mr Hariri to return to Beirut for the sake of Lebanon’s stability. In private, they pressed Saudi Arabia to back down. The advice was heeded, to the relief of many Lebanese. When Mr Hariri went before the cameras on November 12th he appeared to offer a way out of the crisis. He implied that he might withdraw his resignation if Saudi demands were met—namely that Lebanon commit to staying out of the region’s conflicts. If it refused, the Gulf countries might impose sanctions. Lebanon’s economy is vulnerable to such pressure. As many as 400,000 Lebanese work in the Gulf, sending home a big share of the remittances that make up about 14% of their homeland’s GDP. Were it so inclined, Saudi Arabia could ban the transfer of this money or expel the workers. It could also withdraw deposits from Lebanon’s central bank, damaging confidence and making it even harder for the country to service its debt, which has reached more than 140% of GDP—one of the highest debt-to-GDP ratios in the world. Were the Gulf to impose sanctions, “all economic hell will break loose,” says Randa Slim of the Middle East Institute. The unexpected crisis comes as Lebanon had just begun to recover from years of political paralysis. Last month Mr Hariri’s government passed the country’s first budget since 2005. It has set a date for the first parliamentary elections in eight years. It was about to ask international donors for $10bn-12bn in aid to cope with the burden of 1.5m Syrian refugees and to fix the country’s decrepit infrastructure. But whether the government is led by Mr Hariri or someone else, it is still Hizbullah that will call the shots. Lebanon will remain the region’s punchbag.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri is being “held captive” in Saudi Arabia in an “act of aggression” against Lebanon, according to the country’s President. President Michel Aoun dubbed Hariri a hostage in the most strongly worded statement since the Prime Minister quit his post earlier this month from the Saudi capital of Riyadh. “What happened wasn’t the resignation of a government, but an act of aggression against Lebanon, its independence and dignity, and against relations between Saudi Arabia and Lebanon,” Aoun said Wednesday, according to a statement released his office. “It is not possible for us to make a decision about this resignation from abroad. (Hariri) should return to Lebanon and submit his resignation so that we may refer to it and probe its reasons and ways to solve it,” Aoun said, according to the statement. Shortly after Aoun’s remarks, Hariri tweeted that he was “very, very well” and that he would soon return. “I want to reiterate that I am very, very well and I will return if God wills it to the beloved Lebanon just as I promised. You’ll see,” Hariri tweeted. Hariri resigned in an address from Riyadh on November 4, saying his life was in danger. He has not been back to Lebanon since, fueling speculation that he is being held against his will. A high-level ministerial source told CNN last week that Hariri’s closest allies “have no idea what’s going on,” and that members of his own political party believe Saudi Arabia is “restricting” his movements. His announcement plunged Lebanon into a political crisis and stoked fears of conflict between the Saudi-backed faction of the country’s government and the Iranian-backed Shia militant group Hezbollah, with which Hariri shares power. So far Lebanon’s rival political factions have called for calm, and made public statements asking for Hariri’s return. France called Tuesday for Hariri be allowed to go home and urged all sides to ratchet down tensions.
In an interview with a French news channel, Hariri says his time in Saudi will remain undisclosed. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri has said that the events that unfolded over the past three weeks of his time in Saudi Arabia will remain undisclosed, emphasising that he does not wish to discuss the details of what happened to him during that period. In an interview with French channel CNews on Monday, Hariri said he wanted to bring about a “positive shock” on the Lebanese people through the announcement of his resignation, stressing that there was no pressure on him to resign from Saudi Arabia. Hariri had announced his resignation on November 4 from the Saudi capital Riyadh, but deferred his decision on November 22, when he returned to Lebanon after visiting France and Egypt. In a televised speech, Hariri blamed interference in Lebanon by Iran and its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement, for his decision to resign, adding that he feared an assassination attempt. Referring to Hezbollah, Hariri said: “Iran’s arm … has managed to impose a fait accompli on Lebanon through the power of its weapons. Hariri’s resignation speech echoed frequent rhetoric from Saudi Arabia against Iran and its allies. Iran and Saudi Arabia are fighting proxy wars in the region, from Syria to Yemen. Iran is a predominantly Shia military and economic power, while Saudi Arabia is a Sunni bloc leader. Saudi Arabia blames Iran for backing armed groups throughout the Arab world and has recently pledged to fight them. Hariri’s resignation spurred a debate over whether he was forced to resign. Officials in Lebanon had alleged that Hariri was being held hostage by Saudi authorities, an allegation Hariri denied in his first public statement following his resignation speech. In his interview with CNews, the premier said he would resign if Hezbollah does not agree to change the status quo in the country. Hariri is part of a unity government that includes members of Hezbollah, which has a strong military wing based in the country’s south. He assumed a second term as prime minister in December 2016, in a power-sharing government headed by President Michel Aoun, a supporter of Hezbollah, whose members have been accused by the International Court of Justice of assassinating Hariri’s father, Rafik, in a 2005 bombing. The country spent two years in political deadlock, without a president, before Aoun’s election in October 2016, after Hariri endorsed the latter, a move seen by some analysts as a sign of Iran’s influence in Lebanon. Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, said he was sure Hariri was forced to resign as part of what he called Saudi Arabia’s policy of stoking sectarian tensions in Lebanon.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri has resigned during a trip to Saudi Arabia in a surprise move that plunged the country into uncertainty amid heightened regional tensions. In a televised address from Riyadh, Mr Hariri launced a vicious tirade against Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah group for what he said was their meddling in Arab affairs and said “Iran’s arms in the region will be cut off”. “The evil that Iran spreads in the region will backfire on it,” Mr Hariri said, accusing Tehran of spreading chaos, strife and destruction throughout the region. Mr Hariri was appointed Prime Minister in late 2016 and headed a 30-member national unity cabinet that included the Shiite militant Hezbollah. The government has largely succeeded in protecting the country from the effects of the civil war in neighbouring Syria. The country is sharply divided along a camp loyal to Saudi Arabia, headed by the Sunni Muslim Mr Hariri, and a camp loyal to Iran represented by Hezbollah. Mr Hariri’s resignation on Saturday was expected to sharply raise tensions in the country. In his speech, he suggested he feared for his life and said the atmosphere in the country is similar to the one that existed before his father, the late Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, was assassinated in 2005. Several Hezbollah members are being tried in absentia for the killing by a UN-backed tribunal in The Hague, in the Netherlands. Hezbollah denies any involvement. He said Hezbollah’s policies have put Lebanon “in the eye of the storm”. “Hezbollah was able in past decades to impose a status quo in Lebanon through its weapons directed at the chests of Syrians and Lebanese,” he said. Earlier this week, Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan sharply criticised Hezbollah, calling for its “toppling” and promising “astonishing developments” in the coming days during an interview with the Lebanese TV station MTV. Mr Sabhan met with Mr Hariri in Saudi Arabia when the now resigned Prime Minister was visiting first earlier this week. Mr Hariri abruptly returned to the kingdom later on Friday before his bombshell announcement on Saturday. In tweets after meeting Mr Hariri, Mr Sabhan described it as “long and fruitful meeting” that resulted in agreements over many issues that concern the Lebanese. “What comes is better, God willing,” Mr Sabhan tweeted on Tuesday. In a series of tweets, Mr Sabhan criticized the Lebanese government for tolerating Hezbollah’s criticism of the kingdom. He earlier said that those who cooperate with Hezbollah must be “punished”. The attacks on Hezbollah came on the heels of new US sanctions on the group.
Lebanese President Michel Aoun has said that the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri, is being detained in Saudi Arabia against his will - despite Mr Hariri's reassurances he will return home soon. "Nothing justifies that Saad al Hariri has not returned to Lebanon in 12 days. We consider that he has been detained," President Aoun told reporters on Wednesday. The comments are his most direct criticism of Saudi Arabia in the crisis to date. Mr Hariri resigned from his post in a speech from the Saudi capital Riyadh in a surprise announcement on 4 November, plunging Lebanon into its latest political problems. He has remained in the Kingdom since, leading to speculation he is not operating of his own free will. Mr Hariri's alleged detention breached the Vienna Convention, Mr Aoun said. The prime minister - whose resignation Mr Aoun has not accepted - must return for the state to function, he added. Mr Aoun's comments are widely seen to be upping the ante in the Beirut-Riyadh stand off. The prime minister himself has given one interview to Lebanon's Future TV since his shock resignation. It did little to assuage Lebanese fears that the move was orchestrated by authorities in Riyadh, who fund Mr Hariri's Future Movement party as a bulwark against the Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon's parliament. In a tweet from his personal account on Tuesday, Mr Hariri asked everyone to "chill" and said he would return to Beirut "in a couple of days". His decision to resign was ostensibly triggered by fears of assassination - the fate which befell his father, the much more popular prime minister Rafic Hariri, in 2005 - and a protest against Hezbollah's growing power both at home and over the border, where it is fighting in Syria’s civil war. Many observers, however, believe Riyadh had grown impatient with the prime minister’s inability to contain Hezbollah, and seeks to derail the coalition government. Speaking from Paris, Lebanon's foreign minister said he hoped to resolve the "ambiguous" situation with Saudi Arabia. "We hope Lebanon doesn't have to resort to international law," Gibran Bassil said from a European tour designed to rally international support for Lebanon's stability. Mr Bassil spoke after a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron. France, Lebanon's onetime colonial ruler, is seeking to play a mediating role in the crisis. Mr Macron paid a surprise visit to Saudi Arabia last week and French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian is due to arrive in Riyadh on Wednesday.
When Saad Hariri’s jet touched down at Riyadh on the evening of 3 November, the first thing he saw was a group of Saudi policemen surrounding the plane. When they came aboard, they confiscated his mobile phone and those of his bodyguards. Thus was Lebanon’s prime minister silenced. Put bluntly, he is clawing down all his rivals and – so the Lebanese fear – trying to destroy the government in Beirut, force the Shia Hezbollah out of the cabinet and restart a civil war in Lebanon. It won’t work, for the Lebanese – while not as rich – are a lot smarter than the Saudis. Every political group in the country, including Hezbollah, are demanding one thing only: Hariri must come back. As for Saudi Arabia, those who said that the Arab revolution will one day reach Riyadh – not with a minority Shia rising, but with a war inside the Sunni Wahhabi royal family – are watching the events of the past week with both shock and awe. But back to Hariri. On Friday 3 November, he was in a cabinet meeting in Beirut. Then he received a call, asking him to see King Salman of Saudi Arabia. Hariri, who like his assassinated father Rafiq, holds Saudi as well as Lebanese citizenship, set off at once. You do not turn down a king, even if you saw him a few days’ earlier, as Hariri had. And especially when the kingdom owes Hariri’s “Oger” company as much as $9bn, for such is the commonly rumoured state of affairs in what we now call “cash-strapped Saudi Arabia”. But more extraordinary matters were to come. Out of the blue and to the total shock of Lebanese ministers, Hariri, reading from a written text, announced on Saturday on the Arabia television channel – readers can guess which Gulf kingdom owns it – that he was resigning as prime minister of Lebanon. There were threats against his life, he said – though this was news to the security services in Beirut – and Hezbollah should be disarmed and wherever Iran interfered in the Middle East, there was chaos. Quite apart from the fact that Hezbollah cannot be disarmed without another civil war – is the Lebanese army supposed to attack them when Shia are the largest minority in the country (many of them in the army)? These were not words that Hariri had ever used before. They were not, in other words, written by him. As one who knows him well said this week, “this was not him speaking”. In other words, the Saudis had ordered the prime minister of Lebanon to resign and to read his own departure out loud from Riyadh. He certainly did not anticipate what happened to him. Indeed, Hariri had scheduled meetings in Beirut on the following Monday – with the IMF, the World Bank and a series of discussions on water quality improvement; not exactly the action of a man who planned to resign his premiership. However, the words he read out – scripted for him – are entirely in line with the speeches of Crown Prince Mohamed bin Salman and with the insane President of the United States who speaks of Iran with the same anger, as does the American Defence Secretary. Of course, the real story is just what is going on in Saudi Arabia itself, for the crown prince has broken forever the great compromise that exists in the kingdom: between the royal family and the clergy, and between the tribes. This was always the bedrock upon which the country stood or fell. And Mohamed bin Salman has now broken this apart. He is liquidating his enemies – the arrests, needless to say, are supposedly part of an “anti-corruption drive”, a device which Arab dictators have always used when destroying their political opponents. There will be no complaints from Washington or London, whose desire to share in the divvying up of Saudi Aramco (another of the crown prince’s projects) will smother any thoughts of protest or warning. And given the smarmy reporting of the Crown Prince’s recent speeches in the New York Times, I have my suspicions that even this elderly journalistic organ will be comparatively unworried by the Saudi coup d’etat. For that is what it is. He unseated the interior minister earlier this year and now Mohamed bin Salman is getting rid of his opponents’ financial power. Lebanon is always going through the greatest crisis since its last greatest crisis. But this time, it’s for real.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia, has been held under house arrest in the kingdom, a pro-Hezbollah daily said on Tuesday citing unnamed sources. Hariri’s office and Saudi-owned media said he flew to the UAE, a Saudi ally and fellow Gulf monarchy, on Tuesday. Aides to Hariri, Lebanon’s most influential Sunni politician and a close Saudi ally, have denied claims that he was detained. Lebanese newspaper al-Akhbar, which is aligned with the Shi’ite militant group and political movement Hezbollah, said Hariri “was placed under house arrest hours after arriving in Riyadh last Friday” and had remained in detention since. On Monday, Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Jubeir dismissed as “nonsense” allegations that the kingdom forced Hariri to resign, and said he was free to leave at any time. Speculation in Lebanon over Hariri’s status continued even after Saudi media showed him meeting with King Salman and reported him leaving for the UAE. Hariri’s resignation has thrust Lebanon back onto the frontline of the rivalry between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran that has also wrought upheaval in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Bahrain. The coalition government, which Hariri’s shock resignation collapsed, included Iran-backed Hezbollah. His declaration came as Saudi Arabia undertook an anti-corruption purge in which royals, ministers and investors have been arrested as the putative next king tightens his grip on power. In a dramatic escalation of the crisis, Saudi Arabia accused Lebanon on Monday of declaring war because of aggression by Hezbollah. Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah accused Riyadh last week of forcing Hariri to step down, and said there were “legitimate questions” over whether he had been detained. The al-Akhbar newspaper said that a Saudi security team had been supervising Hariri, citing unnamed sources close to him. The prime minister, whose family made their fortune in the Saudi construction industry, had very limited access to his phones, it said on Tuesday. Fouad Siniora, a former prime minister and senior member of Hariri’s political party, said Hariri would return to Lebanon.
You may recall last month's drama concerning Lebanon's prime minister. Saad Hariri turned up in Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television. Many Lebanese thought he was being detained there, and the country's president insisted he return home and resign in person. Well, eventually, Hariri did leave Saudi Arabia. And three weeks ago, he rescinded his resignation. The story was strange, even by the standards of Lebanese politics, which are often full of intrigue involving neighboring countries and regional powers. Reporter Maria Abi-Habib is one of the New York Times staffers who worked on sorting this one out and telling what the Times describes as the backstory to Hariri's long, strange sojourn in Saudi Arabia. Thanks for joining us. MARIA ABI-HABIB: Thank you for having me and merry Christmas. ABI-HABIB: Well, it wouldn't be unusual by any, you know, stretch because he is a man that has vested interests in Saudi Arabia. His family home is there. His children were there at the time, as was his wife. Mr. Hariri has been Saudi Arabia's point man in Lebanon for about a decade or so. So that's not unusual but then what unfolded afterwards was very unusual by any, you know, know, diplomatic stretch. SIEGEL: One measure of the surprise here was you write that Hariri showed up at the royal offices in jeans because he thought he was going camping with the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. ABI-HABIB: That's correct. Mohammed bin Salman, or MBS as he's known, he's been known to go on camping trips with, you know, those that are close to him, including political allies, particularly the man who's known as Mohammed bin Zayed, who is pretty much leading the United Arab Emirates government at this point. He's kind of the brains behind the government, Abu Dhabi. And the UAE is Saudi Arabia's closest ally. And together, they're really trying to reshape the Middle East. And part of that is to counter what they see as a threat Iran, which I think most citizens would identify also as a threat. The Iranians have been very, very aggressive in reshaping the Middle East in their way, and they've also outmaneuvered pretty much everybody from those in Washington to those in Riyadh. ABI-HABIB: So they're very upset with the fact that Mr. Hariri had seen one of Iran's top religious leaders just days before. They were also very upset by what they said was Mr. Hariri providing political cover to Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon. And they said that they kind of demanded that Mr. Hariri put more pressure on Hezbollah. And, you know, Mr. Hariri had before opposed Hezbollah, but like many in Lebanon, kind of felt like, look, we don't love Hezbollah. We agree that it's a problem. However, Hezbollah is the only way to stem the threat from Israel, which has occupied Lebanese territory even before Hezbollah existed. The second argument would be we're not going to burn down Lebanon in order to counter Hezbollah. The army is not up to task because it's not been funded for years. We see that the only way that we can have Lebanon exist as a country and function is to kind of cut a power-sharing deal with Hezbollah. And like many countries across the Middle East, Lebanon's very tired of being in this proxy war between Saudi and Iran. And at this point, they just feel that these problems are very intractable and beyond Lebanon's, you know, means. ABI-HABIB: Well, at some point, he was unable to actually access the main residence of his mansion where his family were in Riyadh. And he was forced to stay in the guest house. And he did this famous interview with the very famous TV anchor from that residence, which would be strange. It also seemed at one point when he returned to Lebanon, the Twitter sphere was remarking on this photo that came out from the Lebanese government where Mr. Hariri's shoes were several sizes too big for his feet which would suggest that he didn't have access to his clothing. So everything would suggest that he was, in fact, forcefully detained to a degree. ABI-HABIB: Well, he agreed to read the letter. And the Saudis to this day insist that Mr. Hariri resigned of his own, you know, will. But at the end of the day, as soon as he was back in Lebanon, he rescinded his resignation. So I think that that says a lot. Western diplomats who saw Mr. Hariri walked away thinking that he wasn't being able to act within his own means. And diplomats that I spoke to were very concerned about this because this would fly in the face of any diplomatic norms. ABI-HABIB: Well, I mean, I think that it depends on what audience he's playing to. I mean, wars tend to be kind of popular domestically, whether we want to admit to it or not. It definitely brings nations together behind a leader. And among young Saudis, they feel like these old kings that were in power before weren't willing to be aggressive enough to counter Iran and that MBS is. Regionally, it hasn't really worked. I mean, you have Qatar - which seemingly forced a change in regime in Qatar. And that kind of blew up in their face. And then also, Qatar has just become closer to Iran as a result. So fine, he might be, you know, shoring up support domestically, but regionally, it's pretty chaotic and not very fruitful foreign policy that MBS has embarked upon. SIEGEL: Reporter Maria Abi-Habib of The New York Times. Thanks for talking with us today and merry Christmas. ABI-HABIB: Thank you. Merry Christmas. Copyright © 2017 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
Saudi Gulf affairs minister says Iran-backed group Hezbollah has committed ‘acts of aggression’ against the kingdom. Saudi Arabia has accused the Lebanese government of declaring war against it because of Hezbollah’s “aggression”, further escalating an already tense situation threatening to destabilise Lebanon. The risk of an open-ended political crisis has loomed large over Lebanon’s fragile stability since Saudi-allied Saad Hariri quit as prime minister on Saturday, blaming Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah for “sowing strife” in the region. The unexpected move has also stoked fears of an escalation in the regional divide between Iran and the Gulf states, primarily Saudi Arabia, with Lebanon on the front lines. Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs, said on Monday that Lebanon’s government would “be dealt with as a government declaring war on Saudi Arabia” because of what he described as “acts of aggression” committed by Hezbollah. In an interview with Al Arabiya, Sabhan said Hezbollah was involved in every “terrorist act” that threatened Saudi Arabia. “The Lebanese must choose between peace or aligning with Hezbollah,” he added, without offering any details about what action Riyadh might take against Beirut. There was no immediate response from Lebanon. Al Jazeera’s Zeina Khodr, reporting from Lebanon’s capital, Beirut, said the “strong language” used by Saudi officials was described by some analysts as “unprecedented”. “People are concerned … [by] the very tough rhetoric,” she said. Hariri, a Sunni politician and longtime ally of the Gulf Kingdom, announced his resignation from the Saudi capital, Riyadh. His decision brought down Lebanon’s coalition government, which included members of Hezbollah. “Lebanon is divided into two similar [camps],” political analyst Khaldoun El Charif told Al Jazeera. “One is pro-Iran and the other is pro-Saudi, which means if things get worse it could lead to a confrontation between the two parties like what happened [in the past],” he added. But the constitutional process to appoint a new prime minister has been put on hold, with Lebanon’s Justice Minister Salim Jreissati saying there will be no action taken until Hariri returns from Saudi Arabia. “We have been told by the president that we won’t take any decision before knowing the circumstances of Hariri’s resignation from the prime minister himself,” Jreissati told reporters. Al Jazeera’s Khodr said “it will be hard to find” a political figure to replace Hariri. “According to Lebanon’s power-sharing deal, he must be a Sunni Muslim, and if internal stability is to be maintained he must be a consensual figure able to bring the rival parties together,” added Khodr. In a televised speech announcing his decision to step down, Hariri said he believed he faced threats to his life. He also called out Iran for sowing “disorder and destruction” in Lebanon, and criticised Hezbollah, which has members in government and parliament as well as an armed wing, for building “a state within a state”. In response, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah on Sunday called Hariri’s resignation a “Saudi-imposed decision”. “It was not our wish for Hariri to resign,” he said in a televised appearance on the Hezbollah-owned Al Manar TV. “Even if he was forced to resign, the way in which it was executed does not reflect Hariri’s way in dealing with things,” Nasrallah added, questioning the text of Hariri’s speech broadcast during his visit to Riyadh. In his interview with Al Arabiya on Monday, Saudi’s Sabhan rejected that the Kingdom had forced Hariri to resign. “Talk about Hariri being pushed to resign is a lie and aims at distracting the Lebanese people,” he said.
A Saudi minister took Riyadh’s threatening rhetoric against Hezbollah and Lebanon to new heights, accusing the group of engaging in terrorist activities on Saudi soil. Thamer al-Sabhan, the state minister for Gulf affairs, said that the Lebanese government will be treated as “declaring war” on Saudi Arabia because of Hezbollah’s “aggression” against the kingdom and its participation in the Lebanese parliament and cabinet. “The situation is very very sensitive; the situation is very alarming,” al-Sabhan told Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya TV, a Saudi owned pan-Arab TV, this week. Saudi Arabia supported Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest, and his allies during years of political conflict in Lebanon with Iran-backed Hezbollah. The Saudi statements came after an unexpected resignation by Hariri during a formal visit to Saudi Arabia, raising questions on the timing of his announcement and why he chose Riyadh, not Beirut, to inform the world. The recent resignation of Hariri might bring an end to 1989 Taif Agreement, a sectarian power-sharing system curated by Saudi Arabia, which ended a brutal 15-year Lebanese civil war. According to the agreement, Syria was responsible for overseeing the balance of power among all sectarian groups in Lebanon and managed the Sunni-Shiite rift, a role which was undermined after the assassination of then Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in 2005, resulting in the ousting of Syrian troops from Lebanon and accusing Hezbollah of being behind the assassination. “The Taif Agreement has always been an issue for Hezbollah. The new electoral law was agreed upon by everyone because it brought stability,” Hanin Ghaddar, a Lebanon expert at the Washington Institute, told VOA. “But even with this electoral law Hezbollah, will be able to control 70 percent of the next parliament which means that Hezbollah will be able to change the constitution, including the Taif Agreement,” Ghaddar said. Following the resignation, Secretary General of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah made a televised speech on Hezbollah-affiliated TV channel Al-Manar, urging everyone to remain calm and patient. Nasrallah added that if the resignation of the head of the government sought to unleash an Israeli attack on Lebanon then this will not happen because Israel does not take into consideration an existence of an active Lebanese government in case it decided to attack Lebanon. “There should be a strategy to confront Hezbollah and Iran in the entire region,” Ghaddar concluded.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman consolidated his control over Saudi Arabia’s political system and foreign policy over the weekend in a series of orchestrated moves that included ordering the arrests of prominent officials and businessmen. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman consolidated his control over Saudi Arabia’s political system and foreign policy over the weekend in a series of orchestrated moves that included ordering the arrests of prominent officials and businessmen. The first step came on midday Saturday, when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri unexpectedly announced his resignation in a speech delivered from Riyadh. Hariri, a longtime client of Saudi Arabia, warned about assassination plots targeting him and said that Iran’s hands in the region “will be cut off.” Hariri, whose family owns a massive Saudi construction firm, had presided over a national unity government that included Hezbollah, Iran’s foremost ally in the country. Saudi officials had recently made clear they sought to confront Iran and its allies across the Arab world. In May, Mohammed bin Salman ruled out any dialogue with Iran, saying that Saudi Arabia “will work so that the battle is on their side, inside Iran.” Saudi State Minister for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan seemed to echo that stance last week, when he said that the Iranian-backed Hezbollah “should be toppled” from power, promising “astonishing” developments in the days to come. The next day, the minister posted on Twitter that he had concluded “a long and fruitful meeting” with Hariri. Hariri’s move has thrown Lebanese politics into flux. President Michel Aoun, an ally of Hezbollah, said that he would not accept the resignation until Hariri returns to the country. Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, meanwhile, said that Hariri’s decision had been “imposed” by Saudi Arabia, and that his party had not sought the prime minister’s exit. “Why was Hariri not allowed to return to Lebanon to announce the resignation from here?” he asked. Nasrallah’s comments were meant to link Hariri’s departure to the arrest of dozens of Saudi princes and influential military officers, politicians, and businessmen in a purported anti-corruption sweep. The wave of arrests cemented Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s control over the kingdom’s security institutions and threatened to bring down some of its most prominent businessmen. There was no evidence that Hariri, who also holds Saudi citizenship, was caught up in the arrests, and on Sunday evening he posted a photograph of himself meeting with the new Saudi ambassador to Lebanon. The most politically powerful figure to lose his job over the weekend was Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, the son of former King Abdullah and a former candidate for the throne himself, who was removed from his post as head of the Saudi Arabian National Guard by royal decree. Prince Miteb was the last member of Abdullah’s branch of the family to maintain a top government post, and his removal gives Crown Prince Mohammed an opportunity to extend his control to all of the country’s security branches. The new anti-corruption committee headed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, meanwhile, targeted business figures with well-established relationships both inside and outside the kingdom. They include billionaire Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, the chairman of Kingdom Holding Co. and major investor in companies such as Twitter and Citigroup, and Bakr bin Ladin, the chairman of the construction conglomerate Saudi Binladin Group. The arrested figures are reportedly being held in Riyadh’s Ritz Carlton hotel. In doing so, however, the crown prince is consolidating his own power to a degree that Saudi Arabia has not seen in generations. Recent Saudi monarchs, Haykel said, had tried to build consensus among all the branches of the royal family — and in doing so, had created an unwieldy system that was at times incapable of making decisions. Mohammed bin Salman is returning Saudi Arabia to the consolidated power dynamics of Ibn Saud, the first Saudi king, according to Haykel.
It was billed as a crackdown on corruption. But the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family were intended to send a clear message that the young heir to the throne is serious about modernizing the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The detentions were also meant to show that senior princes are no longer untouchable. The moves that continued on Monday sidelined at least 11 princes and scores of current and former ministers and business officials. While the exact charges against them remain unknown, they came just hours after Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman established a committee to combat corruption. The arrests ensnared one of the world's richest men, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who owns significant shares in a wide variety of Western companies, from the ride-sharing service Lyft, to holdings in the Canadian-based Four Seasons and Fairmont hotel chains. The crackdown now gives the 32-year-old crown prince and his father King Salman, 81, control over the kingdom's security forces and military, after the princes who were in charge of the navy and National Guard were detained. And the shakeup solidifies Prince Mohammed's role as the most important man in the kingdom, clearing the way for him to press ahead with social and economic reforms, while elevating the cold war between Saudi Arabia and regional rival Iran. The crown prince has remained silent about the late-night arrests on Saturday, but his comments nearly three weeks ago that he wants to "eradicate" extremism in Saudi Arabia were almost as stunning. Saudi Arabia is a nation founded in the tradition of Wahhabism, an ultraconservative brand of Islam that has been criticized abroad for feeding both intolerance and terrorism. The religious establishment has long policed public behaviour by ensuring morality and adherence to Islamic law. But the government began to take steps last year to curb the authority of the religious police, limiting their ability to arrest members of the public. Under reforms linked to Prince Mohammed, Saudi women will be allowed to drive beginning next summer. The government is also trying to bring more forms of public entertainment. Earlier this year, some Saudis — including women — dressed up as superheroes at the kingdom's first Comic-Con event. These reforms, aimed at refocusing the kingdom's economy away from oil and modernizing society, have appealed to many young Saudis — who no longer want to have to travel to London or Dubai to see a pop concert — and are hungry for more freedoms. "The crown prince's eyes are on ordinary, young Saudis who are becoming more restive and are asking questions about the gap between their aspirations and the reality on the ground," said Fawaz Gerges, professor of international relations at the London School of Economics. "The clampdown against corruption resonates with ordinary Saudis who feel that the state has been asking them to accept belt tightening while, at the same time, they see corruption and the power elite accumulating more wealth," Gerges told CBC News. Saudi authorities also want to build a new travel destination along the Red Sea coast, where women would be free to wear whatever they wanted when heading to the beach — something unheard of in a nation where modesty is a central vanguard. But the prospect of a more open and modern Saudi Arabia has angered the conservative religious clerics, who have wielded considerable power in recent decades. It seems that Prince Mohammed is prepared to stand up to them, as he pushes for a more moderate approach to Islam — hoping to improve the kingdom's image abroad. But the crown prince continues to face critics in some foreign circles for his agenda outside the country's border. Prince Mohammed has accelerated the Saudi war in neighbouring Yemen, where a bloody conflict with Iranian-backed Houthi rebels has raged since 2015. The United Nations in September reported that more than 5,000 civilians have been killed in the conflict. The UN's human rights chief blamed the majority of the deaths on the Saudi-led coalition. There are fears of escalation after Houthi rebels fired a ballistic missile at Riyadh on Saturday. The missile was destroyed near the city's airport. Just hours earlier, the resignation of the prime minister of Lebanon rocked the already volatile Middle East. Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who announced his departure from Riyadh, said he was stepping down because he was worried about an assassination plot — blaming Iran and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, which Tehran supports, for his decision. The Middle East is "experiencing the attempt of Iran to conquer the Middle East, to dominate it and subjugate it," Netanyahu told the BBC. The events of the weekend sent seismic waves across the Middle East and raise concerns of a new period of even greater uncertainty in the region. With the war against ISIS winding down in Syria and Iraq, there are concerns that the battle for dominance of the Middle East between Iran and the Saudis could also escalate. With Syria's Bashar al-Assad still firmly in power in the presidential palace in Damascus, largely thanks to the backing of Russia and Iran, the Saudis have failed at their attempt to force him out. "Iranian influence is rampant in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq," wrote Bruce Reidl, the director of the Intelligence Project at the Brookings Institute in media site al-Monitor.
During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages. Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here. Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of the trial. You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital, a robust journalistic offering that fulfils many user’s needs. Compare Standard and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.
BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia has opened a new front in its regional proxy war with Iran, threatening Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah and its home country Lebanon to try to regain the upper hand. With Iranian power winning out in Iraq and Syria, and Riyadh bogged down in a war with Iran-allied groups in Yemen, the new Saudi approach could bring lasting political and economic turmoil to a country where Tehran had appeared ascendant. The resignation on Saturday of the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri, announced from Riyadh and blamed on Iran and Hezbollah, is seen by many as the first step in an unprecedented Saudi intervention in Lebanese politics. “The Saudis appear to have decided that the best way to confront Iran is to start in Lebanon,” a European diplomat said. Riyadh is blaming Hezbollah for the resignation of Lebanon’s preeminent Sunni politician, accusing it of “hijacking” Lebanese politics. But Saudi Arabia is also widening blame to Lebanon as a whole, saying it too has declared war on the Kingdom. A Saudi minister has made the near impossible demand that Lebanese act against a group that is a major part of Lebanon’s political fabric and far more powerful than the weak state, with a guerrilla army that out guns the national military. Coinciding with a major anti-corruption purge of top Saudis, Hariri’s shock announcement has given rise to suggestions from Hezbollah and others that his Saudi business interests had embroiled him in the probe and he was forced to resigning. Saudi Arabia and Hariri’s allies deny that, and assertions that Hariri is under house arrest. They say his hand was forced by Hezbollah interventions in Arab countries in service of Iran. Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Jubeir said Hezbollah had been “calling the shots” in the Hariri government, which included two Hezbollah ministers and was formed last year in a political deal that made Michel Aoun, a Hezbollah ally, head of state. Hezbollah and its allies will struggle to form a government without Hariri or his blessing, leaving Lebanon in a protracted crisis that could eventually stir Sunni-Shi’ite tensions, though there is no sign of this yet as all sides urge calm. Announcing his resignation, Hariri cited an assassination plot against him and slammed Iran and Hezbollah for sowing strife and trying to “kidnap” Lebanon away from the Arab world. The declaration came as a surprise even to Hariri’s aides. It is not clear what comes next: Saudi-backed efforts to weaken Hezbollah in Lebanon failed badly a decade ago, ending with a bout of Sunni-Shi’ite fighting on the streets of Beirut that only underlined Hezbollah’s military dominance. The regional struggle moved elsewhere in recent years, notably neighboring Syria where years of Saudi investment in rebel groups fighting President Bashar al-Assad failed to withstand direct military intervention by Iran and Hezbollah. In Iraq, Tehran-backed militias and Iranian commanders have often seemed as powerful as the U.S.-backed Iraqi military, most recently in an operation to retake Kirkuk from Kurdish forces. So emboldened was Iran that top Iranian official Ali Akbar Velayati trumpeted his regional alliance’s success from Beirut last Friday, declaring victories in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. His statement to the media after a meeting with Hariri was seen as a major provocation to regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia. Hariri left for Saudi Arabia immediately afterwards, cancelling previously scheduled engagements and catching even his closest advisors off guard the next day with a declaration first broadcast by Saudi-owned media. The regional standoff flared in the Gulf hours later, with Iran-allied groups firing a ballistic missile at Riyadh from Yemen. Saudi Arabia says it was launched by Hezbollah. Hezbollah has not responded to the accusation. Neither Hezbollah nor the Lebanese government responded on Tuesday to the Saudi accusation, voiced by Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan, a top aide to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, that both Lebanon and Hezbollah had declared war. “The Lebanese government will be dealt with as a government declaring war on Saudi Arabia, and all Lebanese must realize these dangers and work to resolve the issues before we reach the point of no return,” he said in an interview with Al-Arabiya TV. Crown Prince Mohammed told Reuters last month the war in Yemen would continue to prevent the Iran-allied Houthi movement from becoming another Hezbollah at Saudi’s border. Hezbollah was established by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards in 1982 to fight Israeli troops in Lebanon. Its last major war with Israel was in 2006, since when Hezbollah has grown stronger. While Sabhan vowed that Hezbollah would be forced back into “its caves” in southern Lebanon, any Saudi military action in Lebanon - such as air strikes - would come as a major surprise. Political paralysis and tension is however a big threat to an already stagnant economy, and could derail next year’s parliamentary elections - Lebanon’s first since 2009. Policymakers have scrambled to calm concern over the financial stability of the heavily indebted state. They say the Lebanese pound - pegged against the dollar at the same rate for 20 years - is stable. Hariri was spearheading efforts to garner international aid to help Lebanon deal with the strain of hosting 1.5 million Syrian refugees, or a quarter of the population. Leaders on all sides say there should be no further escalation. Both Hezbollah and Hariri’s Future Movement have worked to contain Sunni-Shi’ite tensions during the war in neighboring Syria. Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah has called for calm and patience in the face of Hariri’s resignation. Okab Sakr, a member of Hariri’s Future Movement, noted that protests in solidarity with Hariri had been canceled to avoid trouble. Sabhan, the Saudi minister, has called for “real sanctions” and alliances “to find a fundamental solution to this cancerous disease”, saying Hezbollah should be disarmed and kept out of government. Hariri, who was thrust into politics by the 2005 assassination of his father, Rafik al-Hariri, led years of political struggle with Hezbollah in Lebanon. But his Saudi-backed “March 14” coalition failed to make any progress toward Hezbollah’s disarmament as demanded by U.N. resolutions. Echoing the Saudi position, the United States has also taken new measures targeting Hezbollah in recent weeks, as President Donald Trump takes a tougher stance toward Iran. It has offered a bounty for two Hezbollah officials, and the House of Representatives has backed new sanctions targeting entities found to support it.
Hariri’s resignation in Riyadh shows Saudi will no longer accommodate Iran’s influence in Lebanon, analysts say. Recent developments in Saudi Arabia – including the sacking and detention of senior ministers and princes, and the televised resignation of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri from Riyadh – come in the context of a regional power play by Saudi against Iran, analysts say. Hariri’s resignation occurred just hours before dozens of Saudi princes, ministers, businessmen and religious scholars were arrested under orders from Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. In announcing his decision to step down, Hariri, who heads the Sunni-majority Future Movement party, blamed interference in Lebanon by Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Al Jazeera explores who the key players are and how the situation reached this point. Hariri’s business and political links to Saudi Arabia stretch back to his father, Rafik Hariri, a business tycoon and former prime minister who was assassinated in 2005, a year after resigning his premiership. “Saad Hariri inherited his father’s business across the kingdom, including partnerships and financial ties with some of the princes included in the purge,” said Ibrahim Halawi, a lecturer in contemporary Middle East politics at the Royal Holloway University in London. Hariri’s prime ministership lasted barely a year after a prolonged political deadlock left Lebanon without a president for more than two years and without a parliament for 11 months. The government was an unusual national unity coalition of pro- and anti-Syria government parties, including Hezbollah and Hariri’s Future Movement. But this underscored for Saudi Arabia the dangers of a coalition composed of parties with opposing interests, particularly when Hezbollah appeared to hold the most sway. Hezbollah has embroiled itself in Syria’s civil war as a staunch ally of President Bashar al-Assad, alongside international allies Russia and Iran. Hariri’s resignation speech echoed a tweet by Saudi Minister of State for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan, who had met Hariri a few days earlier. In his tweet, Sabhan said: “The hands of treachery and aggression must be amputated” – a reference to Hezbollah and Iran. Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House, told Al Jazeera that Hariri’s resignation from Riyadh was a clear sign that Saudi Arabia is no longer “willing to accommodate Iranian influence” in Lebanon. “The announcement of the resignation from Riyadh sends the message that Saad Hariri is firmly aligned with Saudi Arabia, making his resignation more of an episode in the Saudi-Iranian rivalry than an internal Lebanese affair,” she said. Khatib noted that Hariri’s position in a government with Hezbollah representatives was “not sustainable”. “Instead of being able to stand up to Iran’s interests from within the government, he was becoming increasingly closer to accommodating those interests,” she said. In a televised speech, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah rejected claims of Iranian meddling and said the decision was “Saudi-imposed”. He went on to denounce the tone and text of Hariri’s speech and questioned the motive behind the surprise resignation. In light of Hariri’s resignation, the current national unity government is likely to fall, leaving the country facing an “indefinite period of political vacuum,” Khatib said. Being one of the country’s strongest political parties, Hezbollah is still a “tool for realising Iranian interests” in the region, she added. Firas Maksad, deputy executive director of Arabia Foundation, told Al Jazeera that as the dominant power in Lebanon, Hezbollah has “the most to lose and would rather remain focused on their fight in Syria”. “One plausible scenario has Lebanon limping along with a caretaker government, unable to form a new cabinet without securing the approval of Hariri’s Future Movement,” he said. Though there is little doubt that Saudi Arabia enjoys “significant influence in Lebanon”, there are also domestic factors, he said. “Hariri entered into a coalition government with Hezbollah on the basis of a political compromise, which steadily eroded over the past year,” Maksad said. Iran’s influence in the region has significantly increased over the past few years, particularly in the context of limiting the expansion and influence of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group (ISIL, also known as ISIS). In Iraq, Iranian-backed Shia-dominated paramilitaries known as the Popular Mobilisation Forces have been dubbed as the country’s second – and stronger – army. In Yemen, Saudi remains deadlocked in a war waged since March 2015 against the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels, who have been fighting against the Saudi-backed central government. One example of that, Halawi noted, is the US attempt to increase pressure on Hezbollah. “The US is trying to tease Hezbollah’s high ground through its recent wave of sanctions against its funders and members, and pressuring the Lebanese financial establishment to fully comply with the sanctions strategy,” he said. Khatib noted that the recent upheaval in Saudi Arabia aims to consolidate the authority of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, empowering him to set the country’s foreign policy agenda. The 32-year-old heads Saudi’s new anti-corruption committee, aimed at “identifying offences, crimes, and persons and entities involved in cases of public corruption”, with the power to issue arrest warrants, impose travel bans, freeze accounts and track funds and assets. The probe, which has purged Saudi royals, senior ministers and businessmen, appears to be widening, while it remains unclear whether Hariri will return to Lebanon. Over the past year, Mohammed bin Salman has become the ultimate decision-maker for the kingdom’s military, foreign, economic and social policies, championing his “Vision 2030” plan, which includes subsidy cuts, tax hikes and sales of state assets. According to Luciano Zaccara, a Gulf politics researcher at Qatar University, the events of the past few days are a testament to Mohammed bin Salman’s ability to lead the fight against Iran and its allies. “The coincidence with the internal changes in Saudi proves that the succession towards Mohammed bin Salman is approaching, and that Saudi needs to make sure that nobody will challenge the legitimacy of Mohammed bin Salman as the new ruler, neither internally nor regionally,” Zaccara said.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri rescinded his resignation on Tuesday and said all members of the government had agreed to stay out of conflicts in Arab countries. Mr Hariri quit his job in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia a month ago but later said he might withdraw the resignation, providing all parties in Lebanon’s government agree to adhere to the state’s policy of “dissociation” from regional conflicts. “All [the government's] political components decide to dissociate themselves from all conflicts, disputes, wars or the internal affairs of brother Arab countries, in order to preserve Lebanon’s economic and political relations,” Mr Hariri said. His resignation offer thrust Lebanon back into a tussle between Riyadh and its main regional foe, Iran. Lebanese officials said Saudi Arabia had coerced Mr Hariri, a long-time ally of the kingdom, into resigning and held him there against his will until an intervention by France led to his return to Lebanon. Saudi Arabia denies this. Iran backs the powerful armed Shia group, Hizbollah, which is part of the Lebanese government and which Saudi Arabia accuses of sowing strife in the Arab world with support from Iran.
At the weekend the Hezbollah leader had said that Mr Hariri had been forced to resign by the Saudis, but he repeated the allegations on Friday, saying that this was now "beyond any doubt".
"Today I presented my resignation to his excellency the president, and he asked me to temporarily suspend submitting it and to put it on hold ahead of further consultations on the reasons for it," Mr Hariri said after Wednesday's meeting at the Baabda presidential palace.
Before going to Saudi Arabia, Mr Macron said that he had heard "very harsh opinions" on Iran from Saudi Arabia, which did not match his own view. "It is important to speak with everyone," he added.
