Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri unexpectedly the resignation Saturday during a trip to Saudi Arabia, saying Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's life was in danger, and creating a leadership vacuum in an already politically fractured country. Iran dismissed the reports, accusing the United States and Saudi Arabia of orchestrating the resignation.
“Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation was coordinated with US President Donald Trump and Saudi Arabia's Mohammad bin Salman,” Iranian Foreign Ministry official Hossein Sheikholeslam told the semiofficial Fars News Agency. In Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's speech, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, also pointed to Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in an already politically fractured country. “Over the past decades, Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon has unfortunately managed to impose a fait accompli in an already politically fractured country by the force of Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon's weapons, which Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon alleges is a resistance weapon,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said.
Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon Secretary-general Hassan Nasrallah hit back Sunday in a televised speech, pointing to Saudi Arabia. The Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon head also accused Saudi Arabia of writing Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's statement.
“Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon will not comment or discuss the political content of the (Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri) statement, although the political content of the (Hariri) statement was cruel and contains big and dangerous accusations, Hezbollah Secretary-general Hassan Nasrallah and Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon will not discuss the political content of the (Hariri) statement because Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon believe his speech was written by Saudi Arabia,” Hezbollah Secretary-general Hassan Nasrallah said. While the United States considers Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon a terrorist group, Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon's political wing is the most powerful bloc in an already politically fractured country's deeply divided coalition government, and several of its political wing's politicians are ministers.
Lebanese President Michel Aoun, a Christian who’s affiliated with Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon, confirmed Lebanese President Michel Aoun, a Christian who’s affiliated with Hezbollah had received a phone call from Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri about stepping down. Lebanese President Michel Aoun, a Christian who’s affiliated with Hezbollah's office said Lebanese President Michel Aoun, a Christian who’s affiliated with Hezbollah would wait for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri to return to Beirut to discuss the circumstances of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation.
In Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's speech in Beirut, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said the atmosphere in an already politically fractured country was similar to the one that existed 12 years ago right before the assassination of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. “We live in an atmosphere similar to the atmosphere that prevailed before the assassination of his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, and Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri sensed what is being woven in secret to target Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's life,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's father was his killing in February 2005 when a bomb struck his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri's motorcade near the Beirut seafront.
A special UN-backed court is trying alleged associates of Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon in absentia in his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri's killing. Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon denies involvement. the assassination of his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri was a pivotal event in an already politically fractured country, further fueling the sectarian divisions between Sunni and Shiite Muslims.
an already politically fractured country has a large Christian population as well. the assassination of his father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri also led to the withdrawal of Syrian troops, deployed in an already politically fractured country between 1976 and 2005.
Syrian troops, deployed in Lebanon between 1976 and 2005 first came as peacekeepers to help stop an already politically fractured country's civil war but remained long after Lebanon’s civil war stopped in 1990. Syria has dominated an already politically fractured country's political scene for much of an already politically fractured country's post-independence history.
The longstanding animosity between two regional powerhouses – Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shiite Iran – was a major factor in Saturday's developments, said Randa Slim, director of a conflict resolution program at the Middle East Institute in Washington. The fact that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's announcement was made in Riyadh was an important clue, Randa Slim, director of a conflict resolution program at the Middle East Institute in Washington said. Randa Slim, director of a conflict resolution program at the Middle East Institute in Washington also noted Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri holds dual citizenship in an already politically fractured country and Saudi Arabia. “By going after Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon, by denying Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon a credible Sunni partner in governance, it thus weakens Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon on the home front,” Randa Slim, director of a conflict resolution program at the Middle East Institute in Washington said.
Meanwhile the fallout has begun. Bahrain’s government on Saturday called on Bahrain’s government's citizens to leave an already politically fractured country immediately in the wake of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also renews The Ministry of Foreign Affairs's call to all citizens not to travel to an already politically fractured country, for all citizens's safety, and to avoid any risks all citizens may be exposed (to) as a result of these developments,” said a statement released by Bahrain’s government's Foreign Ministry.
Lebanese President Aoun asked Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri to become Prime Minister last year. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri headed a national unity Cabinet that included Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon.
It marked Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's second stint as Prime Minister. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri first took office in June 2009. Less than two years later, 11 Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon members of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's Cabinet resigned, causing a coalition government to collapse.
Under the Lebanese Constitution, US President Donald Trump must be a Maronite Christian, the prime minister a Sunni and the speaker of the Parliament a Shiite Muslim. Earlier this year, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri met US President Donald Trump at the White House.
They spoke about economic issues and the pressure on an already politically fractured country after an influx of 1.5 million displaced Syrians in an already politically fractured country. US President Donald Trump also warned about the danger of Hezbollah, the powerful Iranian-backed Shiite militant group in Lebanon.

BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia said on Monday that Lebanon had declared war against Saudi Arabia because of attacks against Saudi Arabia by the Lebanese Shi’ite group Hezbollah. Saudi Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan told Al-Arabiya TV that Saad al-Hariri, who announced Saad al-Hariri, who announced his resignation as Lebanon’s prime minister on Saturday's resignation as Lebanon's prime minister on Saturday, had been told that acts of “aggression” by the Lebanese Shi’ite group Hezbollah “were considered acts of a declaration of war against Saudi Arabia by Lebanon and by the Lebanese Shi’ite group Hezbollah”.

Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah raised the stakes in the growing war of words between Iran and Saudi Arabia on Friday, saying Riyadh efforts to upend the balance of power in Lebanon was effectively a declaration of war against Hezbollah and Hezbollah's Iranian backers.
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said Beirut did not recognize nor accept the sudden resignation on Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri, which Lebanese officials claim was coerced by Saudi Arabia. “Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri has not resigned,” Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said during a nationally televised address in Lebanon.
Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri's announcement over the weekend that Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri was stepping down as Lebanon's leader, amid claims of an assassination plot against Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri by Hezbollah, was “illegal and invalid.” During a nationally televised address in Lebanon, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah also demanded Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri return to Lebanon to resume Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri's role as prime minister.
Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri has not made any public statements or appearances since Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri's announcement Saturday, amid local reports Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri has been Mr. Hariri’s detention under house arrest by Saudi officials. Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri was reportedly visited by representatives from the U.S., European Union, France and the United Kingdom, the Washington Post reported.
Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri's detention coupled with Riyadh's increasingly aggressive stance toward Lebanon, which has long been Tehran’s strongest regional bulwark against the United Kingdom's influence in the region, is proof that Saudi forces are looking for a fight in Lebanon. Riyadh “has declared war on Lebanon & Hezbollah,” Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said, adding that “any offense to Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri is an offense to all Lebanese.” Hezbollah and Lebanon had been engaged in a power-sharing deal brokered by Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri when Lebanese Prime Minster Saad Hariri took office last December.
Riyadh further stoked fears of open conflict in Lebanon on Thursday, when Lebanon's foreign ministry ordered all Saudi nationals to leave Lebanon. “Due to the situations in Lebanon, the official source at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are The order to leave Lebanon as soon as possible,” said an official statement from Riyadh.
The order came a day before U.S. Central Command officials confirmed a medium-range missile fired on Riyadh by Houthi rebels in Yemen belonged to the Iranian military. “What U.S. Central Command have seen, clearly from the results of the ballistic missile attacks, that there have been Iranian markings on the ballistic missile attacks, that’s been demonstrated,” Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Harrigian, head of U.S. Air Forces Central Command, told reporters during a briefing in Dubai. “To Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Harrigian, head of U.S. Air Forces Central Command that connects the dots to Iran in terms of who’s providing the ballistic missile attacks and that capability,” Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Harrigian, head of U.S. Air Forces Central Command said.
A Houthi statement on Yemeni television claimed responsibility for a nationally televised address in Lebanon, saying a medium-range missile fired on Riyadh by Houthi rebels in Yemen has targeted King Khalid International Airport, 20 miles north of Riyadh. Saudi officials condemned a nationally televised address in Lebanon, saying a nationally televised address in Lebanon was an act of war by Iran and Iran's proxy forces.
• Carlo Muñoz can be reached at cmunoz@washingtontimes.com.

Governments of three Gulf states urge citizens to leave ‘as soon as possible’ and warn against travelling to Lebanon.
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait have advised Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait's citizens not to travel to Lebanon and urged those who are in Lebanon to leave as soon as possible. Saudi Arabia's official news agency SPA quoted a source in the foreign ministry on Thursday as saying: “Due to the situations in Lebanon, the official source at the foreign ministry stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are asked to leave Lebanon as soon as possible.
Only hours later, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates also urged Kuwait and the UAE's nationals to leave Lebanon immediately. Bahrain – an ally of Saudi Arabia – had already ordered Bahrain – an ally of Saudi Arabia's citizens to leave Lebanon on Sunday, with the Bahraini foreign ministry issuing a travel advisory that cited “safety considerations”.
Lebanon has been on edge after the sudden resignation of Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday. Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's whereabouts have since been unknown. However, officials told Al Jazeera on Thursday that Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday may be under house arrest or temporarily detained in the Saudi capital of Riyadh.
Lebanon's Future Movement party, which is headed by Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday, demanded on Thursday that Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday returns from Lebanon immediately in Lebanon’s Future Movement party, which is headed by Hariri's sharpest statement yet over Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's leave of absence. “The return of Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday, the national leader, Saad al-Hariri, and the head of Lebanon’s Future Movement party, which is headed by Hariri, is necessary to restore the dignity and respect to Lebanon at home and abroad,” said a former prime minister, Fouad Siniora, in a statement read on TV.
Al Jazeera's correspondent in Lebanon said that Lebanon's President, Michel Aoun, would soon call for assistance from the international community, the Arab League, the United States, the United Kingdom, China and Russia – to help uncover the reason behind Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's unexpected resignation. Reuters news agency reported on Thursday, citing a senior Lebanese official, that Lebanon has not received Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's official resignation papers, and as such still considers Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday as prime minister.
a senior Lebanese official added that the restrictions imposed by Saudi Arabia act as an “attack on Lebanon's leaders”. the Saudi capital of Riyadh has denied that Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday is under house arrest.
In Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's November 4 resignation, Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday implicitly blamed Iran and Iran's Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, for Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's decision. In Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's speech, Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday said that Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday suspected there were plans to target Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's life.
Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's father, Rafik Hariri – who also served as prime minister – was killed by in a bomb attack in 2005. Many of Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's supporters blamed a bomb attack on Hezbollah, which denies its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah was involved. In Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's address from the Saudi capital of Riyadh, Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday said Iran planted “disorder and destruction” in Lebanon and meddled in the internal issues of Lebanon as well as other Arab countries.
Referring to Hezbollah, which is backed by Iran, Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday said, “Iran's arm … has managed to impose a fait accompli on Lebanon through the power of its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah's weapons” in the last few decades. “its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah have built a state within a state,” Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday said from the Saudi capital of Riyadh. Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday's unexpected move also stoked fears of an escalation in the regional divide between Iran and the Gulf states, primarily Saudi Arabia, with Lebanon on the front lines.
Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs, said on Monday that Lebanon would “be dealt with as a government declaring war on Saudi Arabia” because of what Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs described as “acts of aggression” committed by its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah. In an interview with Al Arabiya, Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs said its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah was involved in every “terrorist act” that threatened Saudi Arabia. “The Lebanese must choose between peace or aligning with its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah,” Thamer al-Sabhan, the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs added, without offering details about what action the Saudi capital of Riyadh might take against its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah. Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, who announced his departure while on a visit to Saudi Arabia on Saturday, has been in office for less than a year, but previously served as prime minister between 2009 and 2011.

The sudden, steep escalation of tensions between Saudi Arabia and Lebanon only got steeper Thursday, when the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs The advisory Lebanon's citizens to leave Lebanon. The advisory comes just days after Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri announced Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation in a televised address from Riyadh, the Saudi capital.
"Due to the situations in Lebanon," read the bulletin in the state-run Saudi Press Agency, a source with the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs "stated that the Saudi nationals visiting or residing in Lebanon are asked to leave Lebanon as soon as possible. "The Kingdom advised all citizens not to travel to Lebanon from any other international destinations," the bulletin in the state-run Saudi Press Agency, a source with the ministry added.
Saudi allies Kuwait and Bahrain have issued similar travel warnings of Saudi allies Kuwait and Bahrain's own this week. But The advisory carries particular significance in Saudi Arabia, where Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri read Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation announcement Saturday.
Hariri, who has extensive ties to Saudi Arabia, shocked Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's country, party and even several of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's closest advisers when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri did so — and Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri hasn't set foot back inside Lebanon borders since. In fact, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's left Saudi Arabia just once, visiting the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday and immediately returning. In Lebanon, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's absence has inspired suspicion that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri is being held against Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's will by Saudi Arabia.
Citing anonymous state sources, Reuters reports that the Lebanese government believes this, as well. Saudi Arabia have denied that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri is under house arrest.
For Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's part, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said in Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's speech Saturday that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri feared an assassination attempt, and that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's decision to step down reflected fear for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's life. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's father, who also served as Lebanon's prime minister, was assassinated in 2005.
Still, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's rationale hasn't stifled the churn of speculation back in Lebanon, where power is held by a coalition including Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's predominantly Sunni party called the Future Movement and Hezbollah, a Shiite group supported by Iran. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's careful phrasing offers a window onto the political dynamic in the Persian Gulf region.
As The Two-Way has noted previously, Saudi Arabia and Iran have been engaged in a tug-of-war over power in the Persian Gulf region — and some believe the brash new Saudi crown prince, 32-year-old Mohammad bin Salman, might be dissatisfied by Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's lighter touch. Saudi Arabia, has sought to rally Saudi Arabia's allies in the Persian Gulf region — including the UAE — to assert Sunni interests against those of Iran. In Lebanon, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's party issued a statement Thursday declaring that it was "necessary" for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri to return in order "to restore Lebanon's dignity and respect," according to The Associated Press.
And Lebanese Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil also posted a rather pointed subtweet of Lebanese Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil's own Thursday. Saudi Arabia has seen Saudi Arabia's own political upheaval of late.
the brash new Saudi crown prince, 32-year-old Mohammad bin Salman has accelerated a campaign to quash rivals and consolidate power. Just hours after the brash new Saudi crown prince, 32-year-old Mohammad bin Salman was picked to lead a new anti-corruption commission — and just hours after Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri announced Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation — Saudi authorities launched a sweeping roundup in which 11 Saudi princes and other notables were arrested.
"A total of 208 individuals have been called in for questioning so far," Saudi Attorney General Sheikh Saud al-Mojeb said in a statement released Thursday by the Saudi Press Agency. Saudi Attorney General Sheikh Saud al-Mojeb added that seven of A total of 208 individuals have been released without charge.

WASHINGTON, Nov 10 (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Friday warned other countries and groups against using Lebanon as vehicle for a larger proxy fight in the Middle East, saying the United States strongly backed Lebanon's independence. Hariri unexpectedly His resignation
Hariri's post at the weekend from the Saudi Arabian capital of Riyadh and accused Iran and Iran's Lebanese ally Hezbollah of sowing strife in the Arab world. Hariri's resignation thrust Lebanon into the front line of a regional competition between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Iran that has also buffeted Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Bahrain.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's backing of Hariri and Lebanon contrasted sharply with the approach taken by U.S. ally Saudi Arabia which has lumped Lebanon with its Lebanese ally Hezbollah as parties hostile to Sunni Saudi Arabia. “There is no legitimate place or role in Lebanon for any foreign forces, militias or armed elements other than the legitimate security forces of Lebanon,” U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said in a statement.
Lebanese authorities have a charge that Riyadh has denied Hariri is being held against Hariri's will in Sunni Saudi Arabia, a charge that the Saudi Arabian capital of Riyadh has denied. U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson earlier said there was no indication Hariri was being held in Sunni Saudi Arabia against Hariri's will but that the United States was monitoring the situation.

AS IF shuffling one government were too slight a task, Saudi Arabia’s ambitious young crown prince, Muhammad bin Salman, has changed two.
On November 4th, the same day as the Saudi purge, Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, unexpectedly appeared on television to The announcement Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, was Mr Hariri’s resignation. Although Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, said Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, was stepping down because Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri,'s life was in danger—Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, denounced Iran and Iran's powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah—there was little to disguise the Saudi hand in Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri,'s statement. The announcement was recorded in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, and broadcast on a Saudi television channel.
Since then Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, has stayed out of reach under Saudi guard and possibly under arrest. A few days earlier Saudi Arabia’s's Gulf-affairs minister, Thamer al-Sabhan, had promised “astonishing” developments to topple Hizbullah, a Shia militia-cum-political-party that calls the shots in Lebanon’s. At first glance Saudi Arabia’s's desire to oust Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, makes little sense. Saudi Arabia’s and America had long supported Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, as a bulwark against its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah.
After taking office last December, Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, passed Lebanon’s's first budget since 2005 and secured agreement for the first parliamentary elections since 2009. Tourism in Lebanon’s has been picking up. Agreements for offshore oil projects were in the offing.
With Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri, out of the way, Saudi Arabia’s can now denounce Lebanon’s as a stooge of Iran and Iran's Shia proxy. Saudi Arabia’s may have a point.
The Taif agreement that ended Lebanon’s's long civil war in 1989 disarmed all sectarian militias bar its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah. That may have been justifiable when its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah was fighting against Israel’s occupation of Israel’s's self-declared “security zone” in the south. But since Israel’s withdrew Israel’s's troops in 2000, its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah has torpedoed every political and military attempt to make its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah lay down its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's weapons. Rafik Hariri, Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri,'s father and a popular former prime minister, was assassinated in 2005 when Rafik Hariri, Saad’s father and a popular former prime minister, tried to disarm its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah.
Several of its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's members are being tried in absentia in The Hague, where Several of its members are accused of involvement in Rafik Hariri, Saad’s father and a popular former prime minister,'s murder. And Israel’s's efforts to defang its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah during a short war in 2006 ended in stalemate.
Since then its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah has pushed far beyond its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's southern confines. In 2008 its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's militiamen briefly took over the capital, Beirut, and thousands of its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's fighters have fought against Sunni rebels in Syria.
thousands of its fighters have returned battle-hardened. Earlier this year thousands of its fighters defeated jihadists who flew its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's black flag over jihadists who flew Islamic State’s black flag over their encampments in Sunni parts of Lebanon’s mountainous north's encampments in Sunni parts of Lebanon’s's mountainous north.
Now its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's green-and-yellow flags flutter above checkpoints on roads between Sunni villages. its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's secret policemen round up dissenters and its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's fighters work closely with the supposedly neutral Lebanese army. No other force—the supposedly neutral Lebanese army included—can match its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's clout.
Yet Saudi talk of removing its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah sounds like little more than bluster. Lebanon’s is already bogged down in one war with Iranian proxies in Yemen and could not sustain another. And even though Israel’s worries about its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's growing arsenal of rockets and missiles, Israel’s will not fight to a Saudi timetable.
Still, Saudi Arabia’s has other cards to play. Without Saudi Arabia’s's financial backing, Lebanon’s will struggle to stave off bankruptcy. Saudi deposits prop up Lebanon’s's banks and about 400,000 Lebanese nationals work in the Gulf, sending home a large chunk of the remittances that make up about 14% of Lebanon’s's economy.
Lebanon’s prime minister, Saad Hariri,'s resignation has already sent Lebanese bonds spiralling and prompted warnings of a cut in Lebanon’s's credit rating. Financial sanctions that America imposed on its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah in October will further tighten the screws.
A donor conference on aid to 1.5m refugees that was expected before the year’s end could be postponed. its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, is not one to buckle under pressure. But Hizbullah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, may be forced to compromise to salvage Lebanon’s economy. Saudi Arabia’s hope that popular pressure could force Hizbullah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, to give priority to butter over guns. Update (November 16th 2017): The original version of this article said that remittances make up 20% of the Lebanese economy. Estimates vary, but 14% is the latest figure from the World Bank.

France's foreign minister said on Friday France's foreign minister believed that former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was not under house arrest in Saudi Arabia and did not have any particular constraints on former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's movements. "As far as France's know, yes.
France's think former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri is free of former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's movements and it's important former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri makes former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's own choices," France's foreign minister told Europe 1 radio. France's's ambassador to Saudi Arabia met former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri on Thursday before President Emmanuel Macron's unscheduled visit to Riyadh to meet Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, diplomats said. It was unclear whether President Emmanuel Macron's had any contact with former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri during President Emmanuel Macron's's stopover in Riyadh. Paris has close ties with Lebanon, a former colony, and with Hariri, who has a home in France's after spending several years in France's. President Emmanuel Macron's said in Dubai on Thursday there had been informal contacts with former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, but no request to transfer former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to France's.
"Our concern is the stability of Lebanon, a former colony and that a political solution can be put in place rapidly," President Emmanuel Macron's added. Two top Lebanese government officials said on Thursday that Riyadh was holding Lebanon, a former colony's Saad al-Hariri captive and a third told Reuters that the Saudi authorities had ordered former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to resign while former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was in Riyadh last weekend, and put former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri under house arrest. France's foreign minister is due in Saudi Arabia on Nov. 16 and is scheduled to also travel to Iran later in the month.

BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany has no evidence that Saad al-Hariri is being held against Saad al-Hariri's will by Saudi Arabia and believes that Saad al-Hariri enjoys freedom of movement, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said on Friday. “Germany have no evidence that Saad al-Hariri is being detained in Riyadh and Germany assume that Saad al-Hariri chooses where Saad al-Hariri goes,” a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said during a regular government news conference. A government spokesman said Germany shared Saudi Arabia's concerns about Iran’s interference in Yemen and Iran’s's support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and the Lebanese group Hezbollah.

RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to Saudi Arabia, expressed support on Tuesday for the reasons behind Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s resignation.
Hariri, a Saudi ally, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s resignation abruptly on Nov. 4 in a move Lebanese political leaders ascribed to pressure from RIYADH. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s said Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's resignation had been prompted by an assassination plot and accused Iran and Hezbollah of sowing strife in the region. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s denies there are any constraints on Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's movement.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, met Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s as well as King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman as part of a trip that was planned well before the Lebanese political crisis brought on by Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's resignation. “Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s is returning as fast as possible and RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, support the reasons for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's resignation,” RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, was quoted as saying by Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s said Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s was fine and would return to Lebanon’s in the next two days.
On Twitter, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s urged Lebanese to remain calm and said Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's family would stay in Saudi Arabia, calling Saudi Arabia “his family's country”. The events have thrust Lebanon’s back to the forefront of the conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom,'s trip has come under heightened scrutiny in light of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri’s's resignation, but an official visit to Saudi Arabia by such a senior non-Muslim cleric is significant as a rare act of religious openness by Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia hosts the holiest sites in Islam and bans the practice of other religions, forcing Christians to risk arrest by praying in private homes.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman says Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman wants Saudi Arabia to open up more to the world. In addition to imposing radical economic reforms, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has pledged to relax strict social norms and revive a “middle-of-the-road, moderate Islam open to the world and all religions, traditions and people”.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, heads the Maronite church, which has a presence in Lebanon’s, Syria and Cyprus and follows an Eastern rite of the Roman Catholic Church. Flanked by Catholic clerics wearing vestments and gold crosses, RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, discussed religious tolerance and combating extremism with King Salman and King Salman's son, the Saudi state news agency said.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has taken a harder line on Iran since taking on wide-ranging authorities two years ago including as defense minister, with Saudi Arabia waging a two-year-old war in Yemen against Houthi fighters aligned with Iran. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has also pushed for more social freedoms in a country where authority has rested for decades on an enduring accommodation between the royal family and clerics who control the hardline Wahhabi strain of Islam that originated in Saudi Arabia.
The powers of the Saudi religious police have been curbed, enforcement of gender segregation has been relaxed and women have been granted some more freedoms, including the right to drive cars starting next year. RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, is the second Christian patriarch to visit Saudi Arabia, after another such trip in 1975. RIYADH (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Christian Maronite Patriarch, visiting Saudi Arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, said the original invitation had been extended in 2013 by the late King Abdullah.

BEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanon’s president called on Saudi Arabia on Saturday to clarify why Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri could not return home, a week after Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri stunned Lebanon’s by Hariri’s shock resignation while in Saudi Arabia. A senior Lebanese official said Lebanon’s president had told foreign ambassadors Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri had been “kidnapped” and should have immunity.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's shock resignation has thrust Lebanon’s back into the frontline of a power struggle between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran - a rivalry that has wrought upheaval in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, and Bahrain. “Lebanon’s does not accept Lebanon’s's prime minister being in a situation at odds with international treaties,” Lebanon’s president said in a statement. Lebanon’s president said any comment or move by Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri “does not reflect reality” due to the questions over Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's status following Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia.
Lebanese authorities believe Riyadh is detaining Hariri who flew to Saudi Arabia on Nov. 3, two top Lebanese government officials, a senior politician close to Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri and a fourth source have said. French President Emmanuel Macron echoed similar concerns, saying in a call with Lebanon’s president on Saturday that “Lebanese political leaders should enjoy freedom of movement”. Macron, who made an unscheduled visit to Riyadh earlier this week, will receive the Lebanese foreign minister in Paris on Tuesday, the Elysee statement said.
Riyadh says Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri is free and decided to resign because Shi’ite Iran's Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, was calling the shots in Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's coalition government. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri has made no public remarks since quitting last week, when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri said Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri feared assassination and accused Shi’ite Iran along with Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah of sowing strife in the Arab world.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri, has also given no sign of when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri might Prime Minister Hariri’s return to Lebanon’s. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri took part in a ceremony in Riyadh on Saturday welcoming Saudi King Salman from Medina, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's media office said. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri met with the Turkish and British ambassadors at Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's Riyadh home in the afternoon, the Elysee statement said.
Sources close to Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri say Saudi Arabia has concluded that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri - had to go because Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was unwilling to confront Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's phone was confiscated after Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri arrived in Riyadh, and the next day Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was forced to Hariri’s shock resignation on a Saudi TV channel, senior sources close to Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri and top Lebanese political and security officials said. Lebanon’s president wants Saudi Arabia, to clarify the reasons preventing Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's return,” Lebanon’s president's office said.
France and other Western countries have looked on with alarm at the rising tensions in the region. “France and other Western countries would like Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to have all Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's freedom of movement and be fully able to play the essential role that is Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's in Lebanon’s,” a French foreign ministry spokesman said on Friday. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation unraveled a political deal among Lebanon’s's rival factions that made Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri prime minister and Aoun, a Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah ally, president last year.
his coalition government included Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah. Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said on Friday that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri had declared war on Lebanon’s and Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah's group, accusing Riyadh of forcing Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to Hariri’s shock resignation to destabilize Lebanon’s. The comments mirrored an accusation by Riyadh earlier this week that Lebanon’s and Iran’s Lebanese ally, Hezbollah had declared war on Saudi Arabia.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's political party denounced on Saturday Iranian intervention in Arab countries and attacks against Saudi Arabia. In a statement, the United States called Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri “a trusted partner” and referred to Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri as prime minister.
the United States “rejects any efforts by militias within Lebanon’s or by any foreign forces to threaten Lebanon’s's stability ... or use Lebanon’s as a base from which to threaten others in the region,” the United States said. U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson had told reporters on Friday there was no indication Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri was being held against Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's will but that the United States was monitoring the situation. The resignation of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri comes amid an anti-corruption purge in Riyadh in which dozens of senior princes and businessmen have been rounded up.

French President has Hariri’s acceptance of french invitation Saad Hariri and Saad Hariri's family to France, and Saad Hariri is expected to leave Saudi Arabia for France within 48 hours, before flying home to Beirut to officially submit Saad Hariri's resignation as Lebanese prime minister, a source close to Saad Hariri told Reuters on Thursday. The French intervention has definitely cooled the tempers across the region.
Lebanese President Michel Aoun said that Lebanese President Michel Aoun looked forward for stability following Saad Hariri's acceptance of Hariri’s acceptance of french invitation. In Lebanese President Michel Aoun's tweet Lebanese President Michel Aoun said that Lebanese President Michel Aoun was hoping to find out reason and circumstances of Saad Hariri's resignation.
the region has been on edge ever since Saad Hariri resigned in a televised address from Saudi Arabia, while being on a sate visit there. The actions that followed created a unique moment of national unity within Lebanon, wherein both the Hezbollah and Sunni Arabs saw actions of Saudis as insult to both the Hezbollah and Sunni Arabs's nation. With saber rattling across the region, a war between Shia Iran and Sunni Saudi Arabia seemed all but inevitable, however the European behind the scene negotiations seem to have greatly helped towards taking steps towards normalcy. While French insist that Hariri’s acceptance of french invitation is not one of exile, from the looks of it, Hariri’s acceptance of french invitation is a exile for the PM of Lebanon and the great game goes on.

SAAD HARIRI is an unlikely hero for Lebanon.
Despite inheriting a powerful surname—not to mention a vast construction company, Saudi Oger—SAAD HARIRI often bemoaned SAAD HARIRI's lot. SAAD HARIRI seemed to live in the shadow of SAAD HARIRI's father, Rafik, a former prime minister, whose assassination in 2005 (probably at the behest of Syria) propelled SAAD HARIRI into politics. But during SAAD HARIRI's own two turns as prime minister (from 2009 to 2011, and 2016 to the present) SAAD HARIRI accomplished little, as the power of Sunnis, like SAAD HARIRI, waned. When a vast construction company, Saudi Oger shut down this year, SAAD HARIRI's countrymen had little sympathy.
But since SAAD HARIRI's odd televised resignation on November 4th, perhaps under some form of duress in Saudi Arabia, SAAD HARIRI has seen SAAD HARIRI's popularity rise. Many Lebanese, including Lebanon's president, Michel Aoun, believe SAAD HARIRI was held against SAAD HARIRI's will in Lebanon. Across Lebanon's sectarian divide, politicians have championed SAAD HARIRI's return. A website counts the days and hours SAAD HARIRI has been away.
The Arabic hashtag #WeAreAllSaad has appeared on billboards in Beirut. Spectators at the Beirut marathon on November 12th sported banners that read “Running for you” and “Spectators at the Beirut marathon on November 12th want Spectators at the Beirut marathon on November 12th's PM back”.
Much mystery still surrounds the circumstances of SAAD HARIRI. SAAD HARIRI's announcement surprised even SAAD HARIRI's own staff—and appeared to have been penned by SAAD HARIRI's Saudi patrons. SAAD HARIRI denounced Iran, Lebanon's arch-rival, and Iran, the kingdom’s arch-rival's powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of SAAD HARIRI's government.
When, over a week later, SAAD HARIRI gave SAAD HARIRI's first interview since SAAD HARIRI's resignation, SAAD HARIRI appeared to fight back tears as SAAD HARIRI spoke of the support SAAD HARIRI was receiving back home. Indeed, SAAD HARIRI has hinted that SAAD HARIRI might rescind SAAD HARIRI's resignation.
the country’s president, Michel Aoun has said the country’s president, Michel Aoun will not accept his odd televised resignation on November 4th, perhaps under some form of duress in Saudi Arabia until SAAD HARIRI returns to Beirut. Even then, parliament may nominate SAAD HARIRI again as prime minister.
Not for the first time Lebanon has become the proxy battleground of outside powers, this time Saudi Arabia, and Iran, the kingdom’s arch-rival's Shia regime. For decades, the Saudis poured money into Lebanon only to see its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government become the main political power broker and a potent fighting force. SAAD HARIRI has done little to curb its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government at home or to stop its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government from supporting Iran, the kingdom’s arch-rival's ambitions in the region.
When an Iranian official boasted of an Iranian official's country’s influence in Lebanon after meeting SAAD HARIRI in Beirut, the Saudis finally snapped, calling SAAD HARIRI to Riyadh. Without the figleaf of SAAD HARIRI as prime minister, its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government's influence on Lebanon would be exposed—or so hoped the Saudis as the Saudis beat the drums of war.
the Saudis's officials blamed Iran, the kingdom’s arch-rival and its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government for a missile fired at Riyadh from Yemen on November 4th. a missile fired at Riyadh from Yemen on November 4th was intercepted, but the Saudis nevertheless called a missile fired at Riyadh from Yemen on November 4th an “act of war”.
On November 9th the Saudis told Saudis to leave Lebanon at once, raising concerns of an imminent descent into chaos, or even an attack. The Lebanese held The Lebanese's breath.
But if Saudi Arabia's plan was to lure Israel and America, which lists its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government as a terrorist group, into a war in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia miscalculated. Israel, though deeply concerned about its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government's growing armoury, appeared wary of being sucked into another conflict in Lebanon.
American and European officials publicly urged SAAD HARIRI to return to Beirut for the sake of Lebanon's stability. In private, American and European officials pressed Saudi Arabia to back down. The advice was heeded, to the relief of many Lebanese.
When SAAD HARIRI went before the cameras on November 12th SAAD HARIRI appeared to offer a way out of the crisis. SAAD HARIRI implied that SAAD HARIRI might withdraw SAAD HARIRI's resignation if Saudi demands were met—namely that Lebanon commit to staying out of the region's conflicts.
If Lebanon refused, the Gulf countries might impose sanctions. Lebanon's economy is vulnerable to such pressure.
the workers work in the Gulf, sending home a big share of the remittances that make up about 14% of the workers's homeland’s GDP. Were Saudi Arabia so inclined, Saudi Arabia could ban the transfer of a big share of the remittances that make up about 14% of their homeland’s GDP or expel the workers. Saudi Arabia could also withdraw deposits from Lebanon's central bank, damaging confidence and making it even harder for Lebanon to service Lebanon's debt, which has reached more than 140% of GDP—one of the highest debt-to-GDP ratios in the world.
Were the Gulf to impose sanctions, “all economic hell will break loose,” says Randa Slim of the Middle East Institute. The unexpected crisis comes as Lebanon had just begun to recover from years of political paralysis. Last month SAAD HARIRI's government passed Lebanon's first budget since 2005.
his government has set a date for the first parliamentary elections in eight years. his government was about to ask international donors for $10bn-12bn in aid to cope with the burden of 1.5m Syrian refugees and to fix Lebanon's decrepit infrastructure. But whether his government is led by SAAD HARIRI or someone else, it is still its powerful Lebanese ally, Hizbullah, which is part of his government that will call the shots. Lebanon will remain the region's punchbag.

Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri is being “held captive” in Saudi Arabia in an “act of aggression” against Lebanon, according to Lebanon's President. the country’s President dubbed Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri a hostage in the most strongly worded statement since Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri the resignation of a government Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's post earlier this month from the Saudi capital of Riyadh.
“What happened wasn’t the resignation of a government, but an act of aggression against Lebanon, Lebanon's independence and dignity, and against relations between Saudi Arabia and Lebanon,” the country’s President said Wednesday, according to a statement released the country’s President's office. “It is not possible for Saudi Arabia to make a decision about the resignation of a government from abroad.
(Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri) should return to Lebanon and submit Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation so that Saudi Arabia may refer to the resignation of a government and probe the resignation of a government's reasons and ways to solve the resignation of a government,” the country’s President said, according to a statement released his office. Shortly after the country’s President's remarks, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri tweeted that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri was “very, very well” and that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri would soon return. “Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri want to reiterate that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri am very, very well and Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri will return if God wills it to Lebanon just as Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri promised. You’ll see,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri tweeted.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri resigned in an address from the Saudi capital of Riyadh on November 4, saying Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's life was in danger. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri has not been back to Lebanon since, fueling speculation that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri is being held against Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's will.
A high-level ministerial source told CNN last week that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's closest allies “have no idea what’s going on,” and that members of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's own political party believe Saudi Arabia is “restricting” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's movements. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's announcement plunged Lebanon into a political crisis and stoked fears of conflict between the Saudi-backed faction of Lebanon's government and the Iranian-backed Shia militant group Hezbollah, with which Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri shares power.
So far Lebanon's rival political factions have called for calm, and made public statements asking for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's return. France called Tuesday for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri be allowed to go home and urged all sides to ratchet down tensions.

In an interview with a French news channel, Hariri says Hariri's time in Saudi will remain undisclosed. Hariri has said that the events that unfolded over the past three weeks of Hariri's time in Saudi will remain undisclosed, emphasising that Hariri does not wish to discuss the details of what happened to Hariri during the past three weeks of his time in Saudi Arabia.
In an interview with a French news channel on Monday, Hariri said Hariri wanted to bring about a “positive shock” on the Lebanese people through the announcement of Hariri's resignation, stressing that there was no pressure on Hariri to his resignation from Saudi. Hariri had announced Hariri's resignation on November 4 from the Saudi capital Riyadh, but deferred Hariri's decision on November 22, when Hariri returned to Lebanon after visiting France and Egypt. In an interview with a French news channel, Hariri blamed interference in Lebanon by Iran and Iran's Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement, for Hariri's decision to his resignation, adding that Hariri feared an assassination attempt.
Referring to its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement, Hariri said: “Iran's arm … has managed to impose a fait accompli on Lebanon through the power of its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement's weapons. Hariri's resignation speech echoed frequent rhetoric from Saudi against Iran and Iran's allies.
Iran and Saudi are fighting proxy wars in the region, from Syria to Yemen. Iran is a predominantly Shia military and economic power, while Saudi is a Sunni bloc leader. Saudi blames Iran for backing armed groups throughout the Arab world and has recently pledged to fight armed groups.
Hariri's resignation spurred a debate over whether Hariri was forced to his resignation. Officials in Lebanon had alleged that Hariri was being held hostage by Saudi authorities, an allegation Hariri denied in Hariri's first public statement following Hariri's resignation speech. In Hariri's interview with a French news channel, Hariri said Hariri would resign if its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement does not agree to change the status quo in Lebanon.
Hariri is part of a unity government that includes members of Hezbollah, which has a strong military wing based in Lebanon's south. Hariri assumed a second term as prime minister in December 2016, in a power-sharing government headed by President Michel Aoun, a supporter of Hezbollah, whose members have been accused by the International Court of Justice of assassinating Hariri's father, Rafik, in a 2005 bombing.
Lebanon spent two years in political deadlock, without a president, before Aoun’s election in October 2016, after Hariri a move seen by some analysts as a sign of Iran’s influence in Lebanon its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement, a move seen by some analysts as a sign of Iran's influence in Lebanon. Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of its Lebanese ally, the Hezbollah movement, said Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, was sure Hariri was forced to resign as part of what Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, called Saudi's policy of stoking sectarian tensions in Lebanon.

Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri has Mr Hariri’s resignation on Saturday during a trip to Saudi Arabia in a surprise move that plunged Saudi Arabia into uncertainty amid heightened regional tensions.
In a televised address from Riyadh, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri launced a vicious tirade against Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah group for what Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said was Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah group's meddling in Arab affairs and said “Iran's arms in the region will be cut off”. “The evil that Iran spreads in the region will backfire on Iran,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said, accusing Tehran of spreading chaos, strife and destruction throughout the region.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri was appointed Prime Minister in late 2016 and headed a 30-member national unity cabinet that included the Lebanese Hezbollah group. a 30-member national unity cabinet that included the Shiite militant Hezbollah has largely succeeded in protecting Saudi Arabia from the effects of the civil war in neighbouring Syria. Saudi Arabia is sharply divided along a camp loyal to Saudi Arabia, headed by Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, and a camp loyal to Iran represented by the Lebanese Hezbollah group.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation on Saturday was expected to sharply raise tensions in Saudi Arabia. In Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's speech, Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri suggested Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri feared for Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's life and said the atmosphere in Saudi Arabia is similar to the one that existed before Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's father, the late Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, was the killing in 2005.
Several the Lebanese Hezbollah group members are being tried in absentia for the killing by a UN-backed tribunal in The Hague, in the Netherlands. the Lebanese Hezbollah group denies any involvement.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said the Lebanese Hezbollah group's policies have put Saudi Arabia “in the eye of the storm”. “the Lebanese Hezbollah group was able in past decades to impose a status quo in Saudi Arabia through the Lebanese Hezbollah group's weapons directed at the chests of Syrians and Lebanese,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said.
Earlier this week, Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan sharply criticised the Lebanese Hezbollah group, calling for the Lebanese Hezbollah group's “toppling” and promising “astonishing developments” in the coming days during an interview with the Lebanese TV station MTV. Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan met with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri in Saudi Arabia when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri was visiting first earlier this week. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri abruptly returned to Saudi Arabia later on Friday before Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's bombshell announcement on Saturday. In tweets after meeting Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan described it as “long and fruitful meeting” that resulted in agreements over many issues that concern the Lebanese.
“What comes is better, God willing,” Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan tweeted on Tuesday. In a series of tweets, Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan criticized Saudi Arabia for tolerating the Lebanese Hezbollah group's criticism of Saudi Arabia.
Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs Thamer al-Sabhan earlier said that those who cooperate with the Lebanese Hezbollah group must be “punished”. The attacks on the Lebanese Hezbollah group came on the heels of new US sanctions on the Lebanese Hezbollah group.

Lebanese President Michel Aoun has said that the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri, is being Mr Hariri's alleged detention in Saudi Arabia against the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's will - despite the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's reassurances the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri will return home soon.
"Nothing justifies that the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri has not returned to the country's in 12 days. We consider that the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri has been detained," Lebanese President Michel Aoun told reporters on Wednesday. The comments are Lebanese President Michel Aoun's most direct criticism of Saudi Arabia in the crisis to date.
the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri his shock resignation from the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's post in a speech from the Saudi capital Riyadh in a surprise announcement on 4 November, plunging the country's into the country's's latest political problems. the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri has remained in the country's since, leading to speculation the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri is not operating of the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's own free will. the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's alleged detention breached the Vienna Convention, Lebanese President Michel Aoun said.
The prime minister - whose resignation Lebanese President Michel Aoun has not accepted - must return for the country's to function, Lebanese President Michel Aoun added. Lebanese President Michel Aoun's comments are widely seen to be upping the ante in the Beirut-the Saudi capital Riyadh stand off.
the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri has given one interview to the country's's Future TV since the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's shock resignation. one interview did little to assuage Lebanese fears that his shock resignation was orchestrated by authorities in Riyadh, who fund the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's Future Movement party as a bulwark against the Iran-backed Hezbollah in the country's's parliament.
In a tweet from the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's personal account on Tuesday, the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri asked everyone to "chill" and said the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri would return to Beirut "in a couple of days". the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's decision to his shock resignation was ostensibly triggered by fears of assassination - the fate which befell the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's father, the much more popular prime minister Rafic Hariri, in 2005 - and a protest against the Iran-backed Hezbollah's growing power both at home and over the border, where the Iran-backed Hezbollah is fighting in Syria’s civil war.
Many observers, however, believe the Saudi capital Riyadh had grown impatient with the country's prime minister, Saad al Hariri's inability to contain the Iran-backed Hezbollah, and seeks to derail the coalition government. Speaking from Paris, the country's's foreign minister said Lebanon's foreign minister hoped to resolve the "ambiguous" situation with Saudi Arabia. "France, Lebanon's onetime colonial ruler, hope the country's doesn't have to resort to international law," Gibran Bassil said from a European tour designed to rally international support for the country's's stability.
Gibran Bassil spoke after a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron. France, Lebanon's onetime colonial ruler, is seeking to play a mediating role in the crisis. French President Emmanuel Macron paid a surprise visit to Saudi Arabia last week and French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian is due to arrive in the Saudi capital Riyadh on Wednesday.

When Saad Hariri’s jet touched down at Riyadh on the evening of 3 November, the first thing Saad Hariri’s saw was a group of Saudi policemen surrounding Saad Hariri’s jet.
When a group of Saudi policemen came aboard, a group of Saudi policemen confiscated Saad Hariri’s's mobile phone and those of Saad Hariri’s's bodyguards. Thus was Lebanon’s prime minister silenced.
Put bluntly, Saad Hariri’s is clawing down all Saad Hariri’s's rivals and – so the Lebanese fear – trying to destroy the government in Beirut, force the Shia Hezbollah out of the cabinet and restart a civil war in Lebanon’s. It won’t work, for the Lebanese – while not as rich – are a lot smarter than the Saudis.
Every political group in Lebanon’s, including the Shia Hezbollah, are demanding one thing only: Saad Hariri’s must come back. As for Saudi Arabia, those who said that the Arab revolution will one day reach Riyadh – not with a minority Shia rising, but with a war inside the Sunni Wahhabi royal family – are watching the events of the past week with both shock and awe.
But back to Saad Hariri’s. On Friday 3 November, Saad Hariri’s was in a cabinet meeting in Beirut.
Then Saad Hariri’s received a call, asking Saad Hariri’s to see King Salman of Saudi Arabia. Hariri, who like Saad Hariri’s's assassinated father Rafiq, holds Saudi as well as Lebanese citizenship, set off at once.
You do not turn down a king, even if you saw a king a few days’ earlier, as Saad Hariri’s had. And especially when Saudi Arabia owes Saad Hariri’s's “Oger” company as much as $9bn, for such is the commonly rumoured state of affairs in what we now call “Saudi Arabia”.
But more extraordinary matters were to come. Out of the blue and to the total shock of Lebanese ministers, Saad Hariri’s, reading from a written text, announced on Saturday on the Arabia television channel – readers can guess which Gulf kingdom owns the Arabia television channel – that Saad Hariri’s was resigning as prime minister of Lebanon’s. There were threats against Saad Hariri’s's life, Saad Hariri’s said – though this was news to the security services in Beirut – and the Shia Hezbollah should be disarmed and wherever Iran interfered in the Middle East, there was chaos. Quite apart from the fact that the Shia Hezbollah cannot be disarmed without another civil war – is the Lebanese army supposed to attack the Shia Hezbollah when Shia are the largest minority in Lebanon’s (many of Shia in the Lebanese army)?
These were not words that Saad Hariri’s had ever used before. They were not, in other words, written by Saad Hariri’s.
As one who knows Saad Hariri’s well said this week, “Saad Hariri’s was not Saad Hariri’s speaking”. In other words, the Saudis had ordered the prime minister of Lebanon’s to resign and to read Saad Hariri’s's own departure out loud from Riyadh. Saad Hariri’s certainly did not anticipate what happened to Saad Hariri’s.
Indeed, Saad Hariri’s had scheduled meetings in Beirut on the following Monday – with the IMF, the World Bank and a series of discussions on water quality improvement; not exactly the action of a man who planned to resign a man who planned to resign his premiership's premiership. However, the words Saad Hariri’s read out – scripted for Saad Hariri’s – are entirely in line with the speeches of King Salman of Saudi Arabia and with the insane President of the United States who speaks of Iran with the same anger, as does the American Defence Secretary.
Of course, the real story is just what is going on in Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia, for King Salman of Saudi Arabia has broken forever the great compromise that exists in Saudi Arabia: between the royal family and the clergy, and between the tribes. the great compromise that exists in the kingdom: between the royal family and the clergy, and between the tribes was always the bedrock upon which Saudi Arabia stood or fell. And King Salman of Saudi Arabia has now broken the great compromise that exists in the kingdom: between the royal family and the clergy, and between the tribes apart.
King Salman of Saudi Arabia is the arrests King Salman of Saudi Arabia's enemies – the arrests, needless to say, are supposedly part of an “anti-corruption drive”, a device which Arab dictators have always used when destroying Arab dictators's political opponents. There will be no complaints from Washington or London, whose desire to share in the divvying up of Saudi Aramco (another of King Salman of Saudi Arabia's projects) will smother any thoughts of protest or warning.
And given the smarmy reporting of King Salman of Saudi Arabia's recent speeches in the New York Times, I have my suspicions that the New York Times will be comparatively unworried by the Saudi coup d’etat. For the Saudi coup d’etat is what the Saudi coup d’etat is.
King Salman of Saudi Arabia unseated the interior minister earlier this year and now King Salman of Saudi Arabia is getting rid of King Salman of Saudi Arabia's opponents’ financial power. Lebanon’s is always going through the greatest crisis since Lebanon’s's last greatest crisis. But this time, it’s for real.

BEIRUT (Reuters) -
Saad al-Hariri, who Hariri’s resignation as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia, has been held under house arrest in the kingdom, a pro-Hezbollah daily said on Tuesday citing unnamed sources. Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's office and Saudi-owned media said Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia flew to the UAE, a Saudi ally and fellow Gulf monarchy, on Tuesday.
Aides to Hariri, the kingdom's most influential Sunni politician and a close Saudi ally, have denied claims that Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia was detained. Lebanese newspaper al-Akhbar, which is aligned with Hezbollah, said Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia “was placed under house arrest hours after arriving in Riyadh last Friday” and had remained in detention since.
On Monday, Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Jubeir dismissed as “nonsense” allegations that the kingdom forced Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia to resign, and said Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia was free to leave at any time. Speculation in the kingdom over Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's status continued even after Saudi media showed Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia meeting with King Salman and reported Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia leaving for the UAE, a Saudi ally and fellow Gulf monarchy,. Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's resignation has thrust the kingdom back onto the frontline of the rivalry between Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran that has also wrought upheaval in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Bahrain.
The coalition government, which Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's shock resignation collapsed, included Shi’ite Iran Hezbollah. Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's declaration came as Saudi Arabia undertook an anti-corruption purge in which royals, ministers and investors have been arrested as King Salman tightens
King Salman's grip on power. In a dramatic escalation of the crisis, Saudi Arabia accused the kingdom on Monday of declaring war because of aggression by Hezbollah. Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah accused Riyadh last week of forcing Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia to step down, and said there were “legitimate questions” over whether Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia had been detained.
a pro-Hezbollah daily said that a Saudi security team had been supervising Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia, citing unnamed sources close to Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia. Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia had very limited access to Saad al-Hariri, who quit as Lebanese Prime Minister in a weekend broadcast from Saudi Arabia's phones, a pro-Hezbollah daily said on Tuesday.

You may recall last month's drama concerning Lebanon's prime minister.
Lebanon's prime minister turned up in Saudi Arabia, where Lebanon's prime minister announced Lebanon's prime minister's resignation on Saudi television. Many Lebanese thought Lebanon's prime minister was being detained there, and Lebanon's's president insisted Lebanon's prime minister return home and his resignation in person.
Well, eventually, Lebanon's prime minister did leave Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television. And three weeks ago, Lebanon's prime minister rescinded Lebanon's prime minister's resignation.
The story was strange, even by the standards of Lebanese politics, which are often full of intrigue involving neighboring countries and regional powers. Reporter Maria Abi-Habib is one of the New York Times staffers who worked on sorting The story out and telling what New York Times describes as the backstory to Lebanon's prime minister's long, strange sojourn in Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television. Thanks for joining us.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: Thank you for having Reporter Maria Abi-Habib and merry Christmas. Reporter Maria Abi-Habib:
Well, it wouldn't be unusual by any, you know, stretch because Lebanon's prime minister is a man that has vested interests in Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television. Lebanon's prime minister's family home is there.
Lebanon's prime minister's children were there at the time, as was Lebanon's prime minister's wife. Lebanon's prime minister has been Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television's point man in Lebanon's for about a decade or so.
So that's not unusual but then what unfolded afterwards was very unusual by any, you know, know, diplomatic stretch. SIEGEL:
One measure of the surprise here was Reporter Maria Abi-Habib write that Lebanon's prime minister showed up at the royal offices in jeans because Lebanon's prime minister thought Lebanon's prime minister was going camping with the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: That's correct.
Mohammed bin Salman, or MBS as the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman's known, the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman's been known to go on camping trips with, you know, those that are close to the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, including political allies, particularly the man who's known as Mohammed bin Zayed, who is pretty much leading the United Arab Emirates government at this point. particularly the man who's known as Mohammed bin Zayed, who is pretty much leading the United Arab Emirates government at this point's kind of the brains behind the United Arab Emirates government, Abu Dhabi. And the United Arab Emirates government is Saudi Arabia, where he announced his resignation on Saudi television's closest ally.
And together, they're really trying to reshape the Middle East. And part of that is to counter what they see as a threat Iran, which Reporter Maria Abi-Habib think most citizens would identify also as a threat. The Iranians have been very, very aggressive in reshaping the Middle East in The Iranians's way, and The Iranians've also outmaneuvered pretty much everybody from those in Washington to those in Riyadh.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: So they're very upset with the fact that Lebanon's prime minister had seen one of Iran's top religious leaders just days before.
They were also very upset by what they said was Lebanon's prime minister providing political cover to Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon's. And they said that they kind of demanded that Lebanon's prime minister put more pressure on Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon. And, you know, Lebanon's prime minister had before opposed Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon, but like many in Lebanon's, kind of felt like, look, many in Lebanon don't love Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon.
many in Lebanon agree that Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon's a problem. However, Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon is the only way to stem the threat from Israel, which has occupied Lebanese territory even before Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon existed.
The second argument would be we're not going to burn down Lebanon's in order to counter Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon. The army is not up to task because The army's not been funded for years.
We see that the only way that we can have Lebanon's exist as a country and function is to kind of cut a power-sharing deal with Hezbollah, which is the Iranian proxy militant and political group in Lebanon. And like many countries across the Middle East, Lebanon's's very tired of being in this proxy war between Saudi and Iran. And at this point, Lebanon's just feel that these problems are very intractable and beyond Lebanon's's, you know, means.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: Well, at some point, Lebanon's prime minister was unable to actually access the main residence of Lebanon's prime minister's mansion where Lebanon's prime minister's family were in Riyadh. And Lebanon's prime minister was forced to stay in the guest house. And Lebanon's prime minister did this famous interview with the very famous TV anchor from the main residence of his mansion where his family were in Riyadh, which would be strange.
It also seemed at one point when Lebanon's prime minister returned to Lebanon's, the Twitter sphere was remarking on this photo that came out from the Lebanese government where Lebanon's prime minister's shoes were several sizes too big for Lebanon's prime minister's feet which would suggest that Lebanon's prime minister didn't have access to Lebanon's prime minister's clothing. So everything would suggest that Lebanon's prime minister was, in fact, forcefully detained to a degree.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: Well, Lebanon's prime minister agreed to read the letter.
And the Saudis to this day insist that Lebanon's prime minister resigned of Lebanon's prime minister's own, you know, will. But at the end of the day, as soon as Lebanon's prime minister was back in Lebanon's, Lebanon's prime minister rescinded Lebanon's prime minister's resignation.
So Reporter Maria Abi-Habib think that that says a lot. Western diplomats who saw Lebanon's prime minister walked away thinking that Lebanon's prime minister wasn't being able to act within Lebanon's prime minister's own means. And diplomats that Reporter Maria Abi-Habib spoke to were very concerned about this because this would fly in the face of any diplomatic norms.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: Well, Reporter Maria Abi-Habib mean, Reporter Maria Abi-Habib think that it depends on what audience Lebanon's prime minister's playing to.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib mean, wars tend to be kind of popular domestically, whether we want to admit to it or not. wars definitely brings nations together behind a leader.
And among young Saudis, young Saudis feel like these old kings that were in power before weren't willing to be aggressive enough to counter Iran and that MBS is. Regionally, it hasn't really worked.
Reporter Maria Abi-Habib mean, you have Qatar - which seemingly forced a change in regime in Qatar - which seemingly forced a change in regime in Qatar. And a change in regime in Qatar kind of blew up in their face. And then also, Qatar - which seemingly forced a change in regime in Qatar has just become closer to Iran as a result. So fine, Lebanon's prime minister might be, you know, shoring up support domestically, but regionally, it's pretty chaotic and not very fruitful foreign policy that MBS has embarked upon.
SIEGEL: Reporter Maria Abi-Habib of New York Times. Thanks for talking with us today and merry Christmas. Reporter Maria Abi-Habib: Thank you.
merry Christmas Copyright © 2017 New York Times. All rights reserved.
Visit New York Times's website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. New York Times transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an New York Times contractor. This text may not be in This text's final form and may be updated or revised in the future.
Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Times's programming is the audio record.

Saudi Gulf affairs minister says Iran-backed group Hezbollah has committed ‘acts of aggression’ against the kingdom. Saudi Arabia has accused the kingdom of declaring war against Saudi Arabia because of Iran-backed group Hezbollah's “aggression”, further escalating an already tense situation threatening to destabilise the kingdom.
The risk of an open-ended political crisis has loomed large over the kingdom's fragile stability since Saudi-allied Saad Hariri The unexpected move as prime minister on Saturday, blaming Iran-backed and Iran-backed's Lebanese ally Hezbollah for “sowing strife” in the region. The unexpected move has also stoked fears of an escalation in the regional divide between Iran-backed and the Gulf states, Saudi Arabia, with the kingdom on the front lines.
Saudi Gulf affairs minister, said on Monday that the kingdom would “be dealt with as a government declaring war on Saudi Arabia” because of what Saudi Gulf affairs minister described as “acts of aggression” committed by Iran-backed group Hezbollah. In an interview with Al Arabiya, Saudi Gulf affairs minister said Iran-backed group Hezbollah was involved in every “terrorist act” that threatened Saudi Arabia. “the kingdom must choose between peace or aligning with Iran-backed group Hezbollah,” Saudi Gulf affairs minister added, without offering any details about what action Saudi Arabia might take against the kingdom. There was no immediate response from the kingdom.
Al Jazeera’s Zeina Khodr, reporting from the kingdom's capital, Beirut, said the “strong language” used by Saudi officials was described by some analysts as “unprecedented”. “People are concerned …
[by] the “strong language” used by Saudi officials,” Al Jazeera’s Zeina Khodr said. Hariri, a Sunni politician and longtime ally of Saudi Arabia, His decision Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's resignation from Saudi Arabia. Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's decision brought down the kingdom's coalition government, which included members of Iran-backed group Hezbollah. “the kingdom is divided into two similar [camps],” political analyst Khaldoun El Charif told Al Jazeera’s. “One is pro-Iran-backed and the other is pro-Saudi, which means if things get worse it could lead to a confrontation between two similar [camps] like what happened [in the past],” political analyst Khaldoun El Charif added.
But the constitutional process to appoint a new prime minister has been put on hold, with the kingdom's Justice Minister Salim Jreissati saying there will be no action taken until Saudi-allied Saad Hariri returns from Saudi Arabia. “the kingdom have been told by the president that the kingdom won’t take any decision before knowing the circumstances of Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's resignation from Saudi-allied Saad Hariri,” Lebanon’s Justice Minister Salim Jreissati told reporters.
Al Jazeera’s Khodr said “it will be hard to find” a political figure to replace Saudi-allied Saad Hariri. “According to the kingdom's power-sharing deal, Saudi-allied Saad Hariri must be a Sunni Muslim, and if internal stability is to be maintained Saudi-allied Saad Hariri must be a consensual figure able to bring the rival parties together,” added Al Jazeera’s Zeina Khodr. In a televised speech announcing Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's decision to step down, Saudi-allied Saad Hariri said Saudi-allied Saad Hariri believed Saudi-allied Saad Hariri faced threats to Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's life. Saudi-allied Saad Hariri also called out Iran-backed for sowing “disorder and destruction” in the kingdom, and criticised Iran-backed group Hezbollah, for building “a state within a state”.
In response, Iran-backed group Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah on Sunday called Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's resignation a “Saudi-imposed decision”. “It was not Iran-backed group Hezbollah's wish for Saudi-allied Saad Hariri to resign,” Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised appearance on the Hezbollah-owned Al Manar TV. “Even if Saudi-allied Saad Hariri was forced to resign, the way in which it was executed does not reflect Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's way in dealing with things,” Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah added, questioning the text of Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's speech broadcast during Saudi-allied Saad Hariri's visit to Saudi Arabia. In Saudi Gulf affairs minister's interview with Al Arabiya on Monday, Saudi Arabia Sabhan rejected that Saudi Arabia had forced Saudi-allied Saad Hariri to resign.

A Saudi minister took Riyadh’s threatening rhetoric against Hezbollah and Lebanon to new heights, accusing Hezbollah of engaging in terrorist activities on Saudi soil. A Saudi minister, said that Lebanon will be treated as “declaring war” on Saudi Arabia because of Hezbollah's “aggression” against Saudi Arabia and Hezbollah's participation in the Lebanese parliament and cabinet. “The situation is very very sensitive; The situation is very alarming,” A Saudi minister told Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya TV, a Saudi owned pan-Arab TV, this week.
Saudi Arabia supported Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest, and Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest's allies during years of political conflict in Lebanon with Iran-backed Hezbollah. The Saudi statements came after an unexpected resignation by Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest during a formal visit to Saudi Arabia, raising questions on the timing of Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest's announcement and why Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest chose Riyadh’s, not Beirut, to inform the world. The recent resignation of Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who is currently under house arrest might bring an end to 1989 Taif Agreement, a sectarian power-sharing system curated by Saudi Arabia, which ended a brutal 15-year Lebanese civil war.
According to 1989 Taif Agreement, a sectarian power-sharing system curated by Saudi Arabia, which ended a brutal 15-year Lebanese civil war, Syria was responsible for overseeing the balance of power among all sectarian groups in Lebanon and managed the Sunni-Shiite rift, a role which was undermined after the assassination of then Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in 2005, resulting in the ousting of Syrian troops from Lebanon and accusing Hezbollah of being behind the assassination of then Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. “1989 Taif Agreement, a sectarian power-sharing system curated by Saudi Arabia, which ended a brutal 15-year Lebanese civil war has always been an issue for Hezbollah.
The new electoral law was agreed upon by everyone because The new electoral law brought stability,” Hanin Ghaddar, a Lebanon expert at the Washington Institute, told VOA. “But even with The new electoral law Hezbollah, will be able to control 70 percent of the next parliament which means that Hezbollah will be able to change the constitution, including 1989 Taif Agreement, a sectarian power-sharing system curated by Saudi Arabia, which ended a brutal 15-year Lebanese civil war,” Hanin Ghaddar, a Lebanon expert at the Washington Institute said.
Following an unexpected resignation by Hariri during a formal visit to Saudi Arabia, Secretary General of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah made a televised speech on Hezbollah-affiliated TV channel Al-Manar, urging everyone to remain calm and patient. Secretary General of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah added that if an unexpected resignation by Hariri during a formal visit to Saudi Arabia sought to unleash an Israeli attack on Lebanon then an Israeli attack on Lebanon will not happen because Israel does not take into consideration an existence of an active Lebanese government in case Israel decided to attack Lebanon. “There should be a strategy to confront Hezbollah and Iran-backed Hezbollah in the entire region,” Hanin Ghaddar, a Lebanon expert at the Washington Institute concluded.

Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman consolidated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's control over Saudi Arabia’s political system and foreign policy over the weekend in a series of orchestrated moves that included ordering the arrests of prominent officials and businessmen. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman consolidated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's control over Saudi Arabia’s's political system and foreign policy over the weekend in a series of orchestrated moves that included ordering the arrests of prominent officials and businessmen.
The first step came on midday Saturday, when Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri unexpectedly announced Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation in a speech delivered from Riyadh. Hariri, a longtime client of Saudi Arabia’s, warned about assassination plots targeting Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri and said that Iran’s hands in the region “will be cut off.” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, had presided over a national unity government that included Hezbollah, Iran’s's foremost ally in Saudi Arabia’s.
Saudi officials had recently made clear Saudi officials sought to confront Iran’s and Iran’s's allies across the Arab world. In May, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ruled out any dialogue with Iran’s, saying that Saudi Arabia’s “will work so that the battle is on Saudi Arabia’s's side, inside Iran’s.”
Saudi State Minister for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan seemed to echo that stance last week, when Saudi State Minister for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan said that Hezbollah, Iran’s foremost ally in the country “should be toppled” from power, promising “astonishing” developments in the days to come. The next day, Saudi State Minister for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan posted on Twitter that Saudi State Minister for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan had concluded “a long and fruitful meeting” with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's move has thrown Lebanese politics into flux. President Michel Aoun, an ally of Hezbollah, Iran’s foremost ally in the country, said that President Michel Aoun, an ally of Hezbollah, would not accept his resignation until Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri returns to Saudi Arabia’s.
Hezbollah, Iran’s foremost ally in the country leader Hassan Nasrallah, meanwhile, said that Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's decision had been “imposed” by Saudi Arabia’s, and that Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah's party had not sought Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's exit. “Why was Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri not allowed to return to Lebanon to announce his resignation from here?”
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah asked. Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah's comments were meant to link Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri's departure to the arrest of dozens of Saudi princes and influential military officers, politicians, and businessmen in a purported anti-corruption sweep. the arrest of dozens of Saudi princes and influential military officers, politicians, and businessmen in a purported anti-corruption sweep cemented Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's control over Saudi Arabia’s's security institutions and threatened to bring down some of Saudi Arabia’s's most prominent businessmen. There was no evidence that Hariri, who also holds Saudi citizenship, was caught up in the arrest of dozens of Saudi princes and influential military officers, politicians, and businessmen in a purported anti-corruption sweep, and on Sunday evening Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri posted a photograph of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri meeting with the new Saudi ambassador to Lebanon.
The most politically powerful figure to lose The most politically powerful figure to lose his job over the weekend's job over the weekend was Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, the son of former King Abdullah and a former candidate for the throne former King Abdullah, who was his removal from The most politically powerful figure to lose his job over the weekend's post as head of the Saudi Arabian National Guard by royal decree. The most politically powerful figure to lose his job over the weekend was the last member of former King Abdullah's branch of the family to maintain a top government post, and The most politically powerful figure to lose his job over the weekend's removal gives Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman an opportunity to extend Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's control to all of Saudi Arabia’s's security branches.
The new anti-corruption committee headed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, meanwhile, targeted business figures with well-established relationships both inside and outside Saudi Arabia’s. business figures with well-established relationships both inside and outside the kingdom include billionaire Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, the chairman of Kingdom Holding Co. and major investor in companies such as Twitter and Citigroup, and Bakr bin Ladin, the chairman of the construction conglomerate Saudi Binladin Group.
business figures with well-established relationships both inside and outside the kingdom are reportedly being held in Riyadh's Ritz Carlton hotel. In doing so, however, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is consolidating Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's own power to a degree that Saudi Arabia’s has not seen in generations.
Recent Saudi monarchs, Haykel said, had tried to build consensus among all the branches of the family — and in doing so, had created an unwieldy system that was at times incapable of making decisions. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is returning Saudi Arabia’s to the consolidated power dynamics of Ibn Saud, the first Saudi king, according to Haykel.

the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family was billed as a crackdown on corruption. But the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family were intended to send a clear message that the young heir to the throne is serious about modernizing Saudi Arabia's.
the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family were also meant to show that senior princes are no longer untouchable. the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family sidelined nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family. While the exact charges against nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family remain unknown, the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family came just hours after the young heir to the throne established a committee to combat corruption. the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family ensnared one of the world's richest men, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who owns significant shares in a wide variety of Western companies, from the ride-sharing service Lyft, to holdings in the Canadian-based Four Seasons and Fairmont hotel chains.
the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family now gives the young heir to the throne and the young heir to the throne's father King Salman, 81, control over Saudi Arabia's's security forces and military, after the princes who were in charge of the navy and National Guard were detained. And the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family solidifies the young heir to the throne's role as the most important man in Saudi Arabia's, clearing the way for the young heir to the throne to press ahead with social and economic reforms, while elevating the cold war between Saudi Arabia's and regional rival Iran. the young heir to the throne has remained silent about the late-night arrests on Saturday, but the young heir to the throne's comments nearly three weeks ago that the young heir to the throne wants to "eradicate" extremism in Saudi Arabia's were almost as stunning.
Saudi Arabia's is a nation founded in the tradition of Wahhabism, an ultraconservative brand of Islam that has been criticized abroad for feeding both intolerance and terrorism. The religious establishment has long policed public behaviour by ensuring morality and adherence to Islamic law.
But Saudi Arabia's began to take steps last year to curb the authority of the religious police, limiting the religious police's ability to arrest members of the public. Under reforms linked to the young heir to the throne, Saudi women will be allowed to drive beginning next summer.
Saudi Arabia's is also trying to bring more forms of public entertainment. Earlier this year, some Saudis — including women — dressed up as superheroes at Saudi Arabia's's first Comic-Con event. These reforms, aimed at refocusing Saudi Arabia's's economy away from oil and modernizing society, have appealed to many young Saudis — who no longer want to have to travel to London or Dubai to see a pop concert — and are hungry for more freedoms.
"the young heir to the throne's eyes are on ordinary, young Saudis who are becoming more restive and are asking questions about the gap between ordinary, young Saudis who are becoming more restive and are asking questions about the gap between their aspirations and the reality on the ground's aspirations and the reality on the ground," said Fawaz Gerges, professor of international relations at the London School of Economics. "the astonishing arrests of nearly a dozen members of Saudi Arabia's royal family resonates with ordinary Saudis who feel that Saudi Arabia's has been asking them to accept belt tightening while, at the same time, they see corruption and the power elite accumulating more wealth," Fawaz Gerges, professor of international relations at the London School of Economics told CBC News. Saudi authorities also want to build a new travel destination along the Red Sea coast, where women would be free to wear whatever women wanted when heading to the beach — something unheard of in a nation where modesty is a central vanguard.
But the prospect of a more open and modern Saudi Arabia has angered the conservative religious clerics, who have wielded considerable power in recent decades. It seems that the young heir to the throne is prepared to stand up to the conservative religious clerics, who have wielded considerable power in recent decades, as the young heir to the throne pushes for a more moderate approach to Islam — hoping to improve Saudi Arabia's's image abroad. But the young heir to the throne continues to face critics in some foreign circles for the young heir to the throne's agenda outside Saudi Arabia's's border.
the young heir to the throne has accelerated the Saudi war in neighbouring Yemen, where a bloody conflict with Iranian-backed Houthi rebels has raged since 2015. The United Nations in September reported that more than 5,000 civilians have been killed in the Saudi war in neighbouring Yemen, where a bloody conflict with Iranian-backed Houthi rebels has raged since 2015.
The United Nations's human rights chief blamed the majority of the deaths on the Saudi-led coalition. There are fears of escalation after Houthi rebels fired a ballistic missile at Riyadh on Saturday.
a ballistic missile was destroyed near Riyadh's airport. Just hours earlier, the resignation of the prime minister of Lebanon rocked the already volatile Middle East. Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who announced the prime minister of Lebanon's departure from Riyadh, said the prime minister of Lebanon was his decision down because the prime minister of Lebanon was worried about an assassination plot — blaming regional rival Iran and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, which Tehran supports, for the prime minister of Lebanon's decision. the already volatile Middle East is "experiencing the attempt of regional rival Iran to conquer the already volatile Middle East, to dominate the already volatile Middle East and subjugate the already volatile Middle East," Netanyahu told CBC News.
The events of the weekend sent seismic waves across the already volatile Middle East and raise concerns of a new period of even greater uncertainty in the already volatile Middle East. With the war against ISIS winding down in Syria and Iraq, there are concerns that the battle for dominance of the already volatile Middle East between regional rival Iran and the Saudis could also escalate. With Syria's Bashar al-Assad still firmly in power in the presidential palace in Damascus, largely thanks to the backing of Russia and regional rival Iran, the Saudis have failed at the Saudis's attempt to force Syria's Bashar al-Assad out. "Iranian influence is rampant in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq," wrote Bruce Reidl, the director of the Intelligence Project at the Brookings Institute in media site al-Monitor.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of your trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital. Compare Standard Digital and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia has opened a new front in Saudi Arabia's regional proxy war with Iran, threatening Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's home country Lebanon to try to regain the upper hand. With Iranian power winning out in Iraq and Syria, and Riyadh bogged down in a war with Iran-allied groups in Yemen, the new Saudi approach could bring lasting political and economic turmoil to a country where Tehran’s had appeared ascendant.
The resignation on Saturday of the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri, the resignation of Lebanon’s preeminent Sunni politician from Riyadh and blamed on Iran and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah, is seen by many as the first step in an unprecedented Saudi intervention in Lebanese politics. “The Saudis appear to have decided that the best way to confront Iran is to start in its home country Lebanon,” a European diplomat said.
Riyadh is blaming Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah for the resignation of its home country Lebanon's preeminent Sunni politician, accusing Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah of “hijacking” Lebanese politics. But Saudi Arabia is also widening blame to its home country Lebanon, saying it too has declared war on its home country Lebanon.
the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri has made the near impossible demand that Lebanese act against a group that is a major part of its home country Lebanon's political fabric and far more powerful than its home country Lebanon, with a guerrilla army that out guns the national military. Coinciding with a major anti-corruption purge of top Saudis, the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's shock announcement has given rise to suggestions from Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah and others that the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's Saudi business interests had embroiled the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri in a major anti-corruption purge of top Saudis and the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri was forced to resigning. Saudi Arabia and the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's allies deny suggestions from Hezbollah and others that his Saudi business interests had embroiled him in the probe and he was forced to resigning, and assertions that the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri is under house arrest. Saudi Arabia and Hariri’s allies say the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's hand was forced by Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah interventions in Arab countries in service of Iran.
Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Jubeir said Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah had been “calling the shots” in the the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri government, which included two Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah ministers and was formed last year in a political deal that made Michel Aoun, a Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah ally, head of state. Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's allies will struggle to form a government without the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri or the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's blessing, leaving its home country Lebanon in a protracted crisis that could eventually stir Sunni-Shi’ite tensions, though there is no sign of this yet as all sides urge calm. The declaration the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation, the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri cited an assassination plot against the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri and slammed Iran and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah for sowing strife and trying to “kidnap” its home country Lebanon away from the Arab world.
The declaration came as a surprise even to the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's aides. It is not clear what comes next: Saudi-backed efforts to weaken Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah in its home country Lebanon failed badly a decade ago, ending with a bout of Sunni-Shi’ite fighting on the streets of Beirut that only underlined Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's military dominance. The regional struggle moved elsewhere in recent years, notably neighboring Syria where years of Saudi investment in rebel groups fighting President Bashar al-Assad failed to withstand direct military intervention by Iran and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah.
In Iraq, Tehran-backed militias and Iranian commanders have often seemed as powerful as the U.S.-backed Iraqi military, most recently in an operation to retake Kirkuk from Kurdish forces. So emboldened was Iran that top Iranian official Ali Akbar Velayati His statement to the media after a meeting with Hariri top Iranian official Ali Akbar Velayati's regional alliance’s success from Beirut last Friday, declaring victories in Iraq, Syria and its home country Lebanon.
top Iranian official Ali Akbar Velayati's statement to the media after a meeting with the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri was seen as a major provocation to regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia. the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri left for regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia immediately afterwards, cancelling previously scheduled engagements and catching even the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's closest advisors off guard the next day with a declaration first broadcast by Saudi-owned media.
The regional standoff flared in the Gulf hours later, with Iran-allied groups firing a ballistic missile at Riyadh from Yemen. regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia the accusation a ballistic missile was launched by Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah.
Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah has not responded to the accusation. Neither Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah nor its home country Lebanon responded on Tuesday to the Saudi accusation, voiced by Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan, a top aide to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, that both its home country Lebanon and Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah had declared war.
“its home country Lebanon will be dealt with as a government declaring war on regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia, and all Lebanese must realize these dangers and work to resolve the issues before all Lebanese reach the point of no return,” Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan, a top aide to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said in an interview with Al-Arabiya TV. Crown Prince Mohammed told Reuters last month the war in Yemen would continue to prevent the Iran Houthi movement from becoming another Hezbollah at regional Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia's border.
Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah was established by Iran's Revolutionary Guards in 1982 to fight Israeli troops in its home country Lebanon. Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's last major war with Israel was in 2006, since when Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah has grown stronger. While Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan, a top aide to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman vowed that Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah would be forced back into “Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's caves” in southern Lebanon, any Saudi military action in its home country Lebanon - such as air strikes - would come as a major surprise.
Political paralysis and tension is however a big threat to an already stagnant economy, and could derail next year’s parliamentary elections - its home country Lebanon first since 2009. Policymakers have scrambled to calm concern over the financial stability of its home country Lebanon.
Policymakers say the Lebanese pound - pegged against the dollar at the same rate for 20 years - is stable. the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri was spearheading efforts to garner international aid to help its home country Lebanon deal with the strain of hosting 1.5 million Syrian refugees, or a quarter of the population.
Leaders on all sides say there should be no further escalation. Both Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah and the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's Future Movement have worked to contain Sunni-Shi’ite tensions during the war in Syria.
Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah has called for calm and patience in the face of the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation. Okab Sakr, a member of the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's Future Movement, noted that protests in solidarity with the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri had been canceled to avoid trouble.
Gulf affairs minister Thamer al-Sabhan, a top aide to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has called for “real sanctions” and alliances “to find a fundamental solution to this cancerous disease”, saying Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah should be disarmed and kept out of government. Hariri, who was thrust into politics by the 2005 assassination of the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's father, Rafik al-Hariri, led years of political struggle with Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah in its home country Lebanon. But the Saudi-allied Lebanese prime minister Saad al-Hariri's Saudi-backed “March 14” coalition failed to make any progress toward Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah's disarmament as demanded by U.N. resolutions. Echoing the Saudi position, the United States has also taken new measures targeting Tehran’s powerful ally Hezbollah in recent weeks, as President Donald Trump takes a tougher stance toward Iran.

Hariri’s resignation in Riyadh shows Saudi will no longer accommodate Iran’s influence in Lebanon, analysts say.
Recent developments in Saudi Arabia – including the sacking and detention of senior ministers and princes, and the televised resignation of Hariri’s from Riyadh – come in the context of a regional power play by Saudi against Iran’s, analysts say. Hariri’s's resignation occurred just hours before dozens of Saudi princes, ministers, businessmen and religious scholars were the purge under orders from Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
In announcing Hariri’s's decision to step down, Hariri, who heads the Sunni-majority Future Movement party, blamed interference in Lebanon by Iran’s and Iran’s's Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Al Jazeera explores who the key players are and how the situation reached this point.
Hariri’s's business and political links to Saudi Arabia stretch back to Hariri’s's father, Rafik Hariri, a business tycoon and former prime minister who was assassinated in 2005, a year after resigning his father, Rafik Hariri, a business tycoon and former prime minister who was assassinated in 2005, a year after resigning his premiership's premiership. “Hariri’s inherited Hariri’s's father’s business across Saudi Arabia, including partnerships and financial ties with some of the princes included in the purge,” said Ibrahim Halawi, a lecturer in contemporary Middle East politics at the Royal Holloway University in London. Hariri’s's prime ministership lasted barely a year after a prolonged political deadlock left Lebanon without a president for more than two years and without a parliament for 11 months.
The government was an unusual national unity coalition of pro- and anti-Syria’s government parties, including its Lebanese ally Hezbollah and Hariri’s's Future Movement. But this underscored for Saudi Arabia the dangers of a coalition composed of parties with opposing interests, particularly when its Lebanese ally Hezbollah appeared to hold the most sway. its Lebanese ally Hezbollah has embroiled its Lebanese ally Hezbollah in Syria’s civil war as a staunch ally of President Bashar al-Assad, alongside international allies Russia and Iran’s.
Hariri’s's resignation speech echoed a tweet by Saudi Minister of State for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan, who had met Hariri’s a few days earlier. In Saudi Minister of State for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan, who had met Hariri a few days earlier's tweet, Saudi Minister of State for Gulf Affairs Thamer al-Sabhan, who had met Hariri a few days earlier said: “The hands of treachery and aggression must be amputated” – a reference to its Lebanese ally Hezbollah and Iran’s.
Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House, told Al Jazeera that Hariri’s's resignation from Riyadh was a clear sign that Saudi Arabia is no longer “willing to accommodate Iranian influence” in Lebanon. “The announcement of the resignation from Riyadh sends the message that Hariri’s is firmly aligned with Saudi Arabia, making Hariri’s's resignation more of an episode in the Saudi-Iranian rivalry than an internal Lebanese affair,” Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House said.
Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House noted that Hariri’s's position in a government with its Lebanese ally Hezbollah representatives was “not sustainable”. “Instead of being able to stand up to Iran’s's interests from within a government with Hezbollah representatives, Hariri’s was becoming increasingly closer to accommodating Iran’s interests,” Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House said.
In a televised speech, its Lebanese ally Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah rejected claims of Iranian meddling and said his decision to step down was “Saudi-imposed”. Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah went on to denounce the tone and text of Hariri’s's speech and questioned the motive behind Hariri’s resignation in Riyadh.
In light of Hariri’s's resignation, The government is likely to fall, leaving Lebanon facing an “indefinite period of political vacuum,” Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House said. Being one of Lebanon's strongest political parties, its Lebanese ally Hezbollah is still a “tool for realising Iranian interests” in the region, Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House added.
Firas Maksad, deputy executive director of Arabia Foundation, told Al Jazeera that as the dominant power in Lebanon, its Lebanese ally Hezbollah has “the most to lose and would rather remain focused on its Lebanese ally Hezbollah's fight in Syria’s”. “One plausible scenario has Lebanon limping along with a caretaker government, unable to form a new cabinet without securing the approval of Hariri’s's Future Movement,” Firas Maksad, deputy executive director of Arabia Foundation, said.
Though there is little doubt that Saudi Arabia enjoys “significant influence in Lebanon”, there are also domestic factors, Firas Maksad, deputy executive director of Arabia Foundation, said. “Hariri’s entered into a coalition government with its Lebanese ally Hezbollah on the basis of a political compromise, which steadily eroded over the past year,” Firas Maksad, deputy executive director of Arabia Foundation, said.
Iran’s's influence in the region has significantly increased over the past few years, particularly in the context of limiting the expansion and influence of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group (ISIL, also known as ISIS). In the Islamic State of Iraq, Iranian-backed Shia-dominated paramilitaries known as the Popular Mobilisation Forces have been dubbed as Saudi Arabia's second – and stronger – army. In Yemen, Saudi Arabia remains deadlocked in a war waged since March 2015 against the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels, who have been fighting against the Saudi-backed central government.
One example of that, Ibrahim Halawi, a lecturer in contemporary Middle East politics at the Royal Holloway University in London noted, is the US attempt to increase pressure on its Lebanese ally Hezbollah. “The US is trying to tease its Lebanese ally Hezbollah's high ground through The US's recent wave of sanctions against its Lebanese ally Hezbollah's funders and members, and pressuring the Lebanese financial establishment to fully comply with the sanctions strategy,” Ibrahim Halawi, a lecturer in contemporary Middle East politics at the Royal Holloway University in London said. Lina Khatib, head of the Middle East and North Africa programme at Chatham House noted that the recent upheaval in Saudi Arabia aims to consolidate the authority of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, empowering Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to set Saudi Arabia's foreign policy agenda.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman heads Saudi Arabia's new anti-corruption committee, aimed at “identifying offences, crimes, and persons and entities involved in cases of public corruption”, with the power to issue arrest warrants, impose travel bans, freeze accounts and track funds and assets. The probe, which has purged Saudi royals, senior ministers and businessmen, appears to be widening, while it remains unclear whether Hariri’s will return to Lebanon.
Over the past year, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has become the ultimate decision-maker for Saudi Arabia military, foreign, economic and social policies, championing Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's “Vision 2030” plan, which includes subsidy cuts, tax hikes and sales of state assets. According to Luciano Zaccara, a Gulf politics researcher at Qatar University, the events of the past few days are a testament to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's ability to lead the fight against Iran’s and Iran’s's allies. “The coincidence with the internal changes in Saudi Arabia proves that the succession towards Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is approaching, and that Saudi Arabia needs to make sure that nobody will challenge the legitimacy of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman as the new ruler, neither internally nor regionally,” Luciano Zaccara, a Gulf politics researcher at Qatar University said.

Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri rescinded Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation on Tuesday and said all members of the government had agreed to stay out of conflicts in Arab countries.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri quit Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's job in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia a month ago but later said Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri might withdraw his resignation, providing all parties in the government agree to adhere to the government policy of “dissociation” from regional conflicts. “All [the government's] political components decide to dissociate all members of the government from all conflicts, disputes, wars or the internal affairs of brother Arab countries, in order to preserve the government's economic and political relations,” Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri said.
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's resignation offer thrust the government back into a tussle between Riyadh and Riyadh's main regional foe, Iran. Lebanese officials said Saudi Arabia had coerced Mr Hariri, a long-time ally of Riyadh, into resigning and held Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri there against Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's will until an intervention by France led to Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri's return to the government.
Saudi Arabia denies this. its main regional foe, Iran backs the powerful armed Shia group, Hizbollah, which is part of the government and which Saudi Arabia accuses of sowing strife in the Arab world with support from its main regional foe, Iran.

At the weekend the Hezbollah leader had said that Mr Hariri had been forced to resign by the Saudis, but the Hezbollah leader repeated the allegations on Friday, saying that the allegations was now "beyond any doubt".

"Today Mr Hariri presented Mr Hariri's resignation to his excellency the president, and his excellency the president asked Mr Hariri to temporarily suspend submitting my resignation and to put my resignation on hold ahead of further consultations on the reasons for my resignation," Mr Hariri said after Wednesday's meeting at the Baabda presidential palace.

Before going to Saudi Arabia, Mr Macron said that Mr Macron had heard "very harsh opinions" on Iran from Saudi Arabia, which did not match Mr Macron's own view. "It is important to speak with everyone," Mr Macron added.

